--- SQP TEXT ---


























 
 [1]
 
UNIT-I: PLANNING IN SPORTS 
Content 
 Meaning and Objectives of Planning 
 Various Committees and their Responsibilities (pre; during and post) 
 Tournament – Knock-Out, League or Round Robin and Combination 
 Procedure  to  Draw  Fixtures  –  Knock-Out  (Bye  and  Seeding)  and  League  (Staircase  and 
Cyclic) 
 Intramural and Extramural – Meaning, Objective and Significance 
 Specific Sports Programme (Sports Day, Health Run, Run for Fun, Run for Specific Cause 
and Run for Unity) 
Learning Objective 
After completing the study of the unit, you will be able to: 
 Describe the concept of planning in sports 
 Classify the committees and its responsibilities in sports event 
 differentiate the different type of tournament 
 prepare fixtures of knock out and league 
 distinguish between intramural and extramural 
 design sports program in their school 
 
 
Discussion 
Discuss with your group 
 
 
List down  
the essential  
areas that you  
need to plan if you  
are organizing  a  
sports event in  
your school. 
Q. Have you heard about fixture in sports? Discuss in your group and share your views 
with the class. 

 
 [2]
 
1.1.1  Planning 
Planning is the foremost function in sports as it gives a view of future course of action. To be 
effective, a plan should be specific, logical, flexible and complete in all aspects and should assist 
in controlling future events. A plan must comprehend all the other functions of management 
like organising, staffing, directing and controlling in order to achieve the predetermined goals.  
In  sports  and  sports  events,  planning  plays  important  role  to  make  the  event  run  smoothly, 
effectively and remain free from conflict. Effective planning must clearly define aims, goals and 
objectives of the event. It should also explain the procedure or method to achieve the target in 
simple  and  easy  to  understand  language.  A  sports  plan  should  be  prepared  in a  professional 
manner incorporating the elements of commitment, enjoyment and voluntary effort. 
 
 
Do You Know? 
Functions of Management:- 
Planning:   It   is   the   process   of   creating   a   comprehensive   action   plan   to   achieve 
organizational goal(s). Planning is an ongoing step, and can be highly specialized based on 
organizational goals, division goals, departmental goals, and team goals. 
Organizing:  This  includes  distributing  resources  and  organizing  personnel  in  order  to 
achieve the goals established in the planning function. 
Staffing: This refers to identifying key staff positions, and to ensuring that the proper talent 
is  serving  that  specific  job  duty  in  order  to  achieve  the  aims  and  objectives  of  an 
organization. 
Directing: Directing personnel is a leadership quality, and includes letting staff know what 
needs   to   be   done,   and   also   by   when.   It   includes   supervision   of   personnel   while 
simultaneously motivating them. 
Controlling: Controlling refers to all the processes that leaders create to monitor success. 
It   involves   establishing   performance   standards,   measuring   actual   performance   and 
comparing them irregularities. 
 
According   to   Koontz   and   O’   Donnell,   “Planning   is   an   intellectual   process,   conscious 
determination  of  course of action,  the  basing  of  decision  on  purpose,  facts  and  considered 
estimates.”
1
 
 
McFarland has defined Planning as “a concept of  executive action that embodies the skills of 
anticipating, influencing and controlling the nature and direction of change.”
2
 
 

 
 [3]
 
Planning is the process of deciding in advance what is to be done, Who is to do it, How it is to 
be done and When it is to be done.
3
 
 
Planning is the aspect of managing which establishes aims, targets, goals and objectives, and 
identifies the methods by which these targets can be achieved.
4
 
 
The planning function includes defining organizational goals and determining the appropriate 
means by which to achieve these desired goals.
5
 
 
Peter Drucker defined as “planning is the continuous process of making present entrepreneurial 
decisions   systematically   and   with   best   possible   knowledge   their   futurity,   organizing 
systematically  the  efforts  needed  to  carry  out  these  decisions  and  measuring  the  results  of 
these decisions against the expectation through organised systematic feedback.”
6 
Thus, planning is an intellectual activity, which involves selection of the most viable processes 
from among the alternatives. It is a systematic attempt to anticipate the future course of action 
and decide the most suitable one.  
1.1.2  Objectives of Planning 
As discussed above, planning is a process that involves selection of the most viable processes 
from many given alternatives. In order to anticipate the future course of action systematically, 
and to decide the best option, it is essential to understand the important objectives of planning 
in sports. 
Goal  oriented: Planning  is  a  goal-oriented  activity,  i.e.,  it  gives  direction  and  vision  to  the 
conducting of sports events. Without determining the goal, a plan cannot be executed. Planning 
aims  at  realistic  goal  settings  and  their  attainment.  For  example,  if  the  physical  education 
department of the school desires to conduct an intramural tournament in the month of January 
next  year,  they  must  plan  well  in  advance.  Before  setting  an objective  for  a  sports  event,  an 
individual must have full knowledge of the event and its various aspects, must conduct scientific 
study regarding the conduct of the event, should collect information related to the event to be 
conducted such as level of the tournament. It must be decided well in advance, for example, 
Will  the  event  be  Intramural  or  Extramural?,  where  (venue)?,  when  (time)?  and  how  many 
events (as per interest, feasibility, infrastructure, number of participants) etc. 
Policy: Development of a policy is very important to set boundaries for overall conduct of the 
event. This will serve as a guide and assist in decision making. Policy specifies the broad areas 
or limits in which decisions can be taken to achieve aims and objectives like decisions on finance 
or on technical issues, defining content of organizing, formation of committees etc. 
Economy: Planning helps in  cost reduction, as it increases coordination and financial control. 
Budget  should  be  prepared  in  quantitative  terms,  covering  all  aspects  of  the  sports  events 

 
 [4]
 
which are to be conducted. It should focus on the quantum of funds involved, details of income 
and expenditure under different heads and various stages of approvals and disbursal. 
Defining  the  course  of  action: Good  planning  fixes  the  procedure.  Procedure  describes  the 
steps  to  be  taken  to  accomplish  a  task  keeping  in  view  the  policies  and  predetermined 
objectives.  It  helps  in  standardizing  the  work  of  committees,  heads  or  individuals.  It  helps  in 
structured  achievement  of  the  task  at  hand.  In a  nutshell,  it  is  all  about  how  policies  will  be 
implemented, or, who, how, when and what an individual will do as per the plan. 
Rules  and  regulations: Guidelines  comprising  rules  and  regulations  of  games  or  tournament 
should be prepared and published well in advance to keep the scope for subjectivity and bias 
in judgement very low. It makes the process independent and self-sustainable. 
Extension Activity 
Working in your group, plan in detail the Interclass / Interhouse Basketball matches to be held 
in your school. 
Share your plan with the class. Vote for   the best plan. 
Conduct a small tournament within your school keeping in mind the plan you have created. 
 
Strategy: It provides the way through which an organisation can successfully achieve its goals, 
i.e., successfully conduct the event. To achieve long term goals the organisation must draw a 
strategic plan and rigorously follow the same. It provides direction in identification of resources, 
event  requirements,  and  selection  of  personnel  to  meet  with  environmental  threats  or 
unforeseen  risks.  The  organization  can  prove  to  be  stronger,  more  capable  and  efficient  by 
defining  how  its  members  can  support  the  overall  strategy.  Strategic  planning  considers 
changes or anticipated changes in the environment that suggest more radical moves away from 
current  practices.  It  helps  to  predict  the  future  direction  and  provides  the  roadmap  for 
achieving predetermined goals. 
I. Tick the correct option 
Q1.    The basic function of management is: 
 (a) Controlling 
 (b)     Budgeting 
 (c) Planning 
 (d)     Organising 
Q2.    A good plan should NOT be: 

 
 [5]
 
 (a) specific 
 (b)     logical 
 (c) autocratic 
 (d)     flexible 
Q3.    In planning, defining procedure means: 
 (a) setting goals 
 (b)     making a policy 
 (c) laying down rules and regulations 
 (d) defining course of action 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
Q1.    Define Planning 
Q2.    Explain objective of planning related to budget. 
 
1.2.1  Formation of Committees 
To  organise  any  sports  event,  various  committees  are  formed  for  its  systematic  and  smooth 
conduct. As we have discussed earlier, to conduct sports events lots of professional planning 
and  preparation  is  required.  Formation  of  committees  should  be  based  on  three  levels  of 
management – top, middle and lower  levels. Depending  upon the level  or area of the sports 
event,  people  are  chosen  to  appropriate  committees.  For  example,  for  an  intramural  event, 
members  of  the  governing  body  or  the  Principal  will  remain  the  top  level  of  management, 
whereas  in  an  extramural  event,  the  Director/Deputy  Director/Supervisor  of  the  state/  zone 
may be at the top level of management. 
They prepare polices or aims and objectives of the sports event. Middle level of management 
consists of department heads, physical education teachers etc, to execute policies and achieve 
aims  and  objectives.  The  Lower  level  of  management  consists  of  teachers,  administrators, 
finance officers etc. They implement the orders and directives of the top level. 
Hierarchy of Organising Committee to conduct Intramural Event in School/ institution 

 
 [6]
 
 
Hierarchy of Organising Committee to conduct Extramural Event in Schools/ institutions 
 
There is no fixed number of committees to be constituted to organise a sports event; it depends 
on the number  of participants, level of event, area of specialization, dedication  of volunteers 
etc. By and large we can formulate 4 committees under an organising committee. Look at the 
following chart to study their details of work and their responsibilities: 
 
of School) 
  
 School) 
 
 
Director of Physical 
 
 
(Convener) 
 
 

 
 [7]
 
 
1.2.2  Technical Committee 
This  committee  covers  the  technical  aspect  of  the  events  like  requisitions  to  procure  sports 
equipment, conducting matches on time through selected officials (referees, umpires, judges, 
timekeepers etc.) for their respective games/sports. 
Pre-sports event/  tournament: Before the event, it  is the job  of the Technical Committee to 
put forward a requisition to purchase equipment, invitation and confirmation from officials to 
conduct  sports  event,  cleaning  and  layout  of  the  fields,  arrangement  of  equipment  and 
stationery, preparation of fixtures, rules and regulation of the sports event. 
During  sports  event/  tournament:  While  the  tournament  is  in  progress,  the  Technical 
Committee is responsible for conducting matches, presence of the jury, cleaning and layout of 
the  fields,  collection  of  score  sheets  and  other  related  papers  from  officials,  preparation  of 
merit list, etc. 
Post sports event/ tournament: After the event is over, the Technical Committee arranges for 
the  cleaning  and  layout  of  the  fields,  maintenance  of  the  field,  and  placing  of  all  equipment 
back to store. 
1.2.3  Logistics Committee 
This committee has a wider scope of work ranging from transportation, boarding and lodging 
to  refreshment,  decoration  and  conducting  ceremonies  that  form  a  part  of  the  event.  This 
committee  may  have  various  sub-committees  as  per  requirement.  The  Logistics  Committee 
looks after the Opening Ceremony, hires photographer/ videographer, makes arrangements for 
the  Victory  Ceremony  and  the  Closing  Ceremony  including  arrangement  of  refreshment, 
decoration, reception, entertainment, light and sound, Medical aspect etc. 
 
 
 
 
Finance 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 [8]
 
Pre  sports  event/  tournament:  It  is  the  duty  of  the  Logistics  Committee  to  look  after 
Placement/Arrangement/Requisition of  purchase of stationery, chairs, tables, souvenirs,  light 
and sound equipment, bouquets, sending invitations to stakeholders including other schools/ 
institutions and VIP guests, requisition of purchase of medals and certificates, arrangement of 
refreshments,  arrangement  of  boarding  and  lodging,  selection  of  volunteers,  preparation  of 
first aid kit and arrangement of medical facilities. 
During sports event/ tournament: While the event is in  progress, the Logistics Committee  is 
responsible  for  the  conduct  of  the  Opening  and  Closing  Ceremonies,  checking  registration, 
distribution   of   refreshment,   management   of   spectators,   handing   over   of   medals   and 
certificates, transportation of players/participants from place of stay to the field and back. 
Post sports event/ tournament: After the event, the Logistics Committee supervises cleaning 
of the venue, and placing of the items back in their appointed places. 
1.2.4  Finance Committee 
The role of the Finance Committee is primarily to provide financial oversight for the event. It is 
involved  in  all  aspects  related  to  the  finances  of  the  sports  event  like  planning,  accounting, 
decision-making  etc.  Finalization  of  sponsorship,  keeping  an  eye  on  inflow  and  outflow  of 
finances, purchase  of equipment and other  items required  for conducting the event, settling 
payments of officials are key areas of focus of the committee. It is the backbone of the sports 
tournament. It pitches to different companies and attracts them for sponsorships for the event. 
Pre sports event/ tournament: Before the event, It is the responsibility of Finance Committee 
to  prepare  the  budget,  to  purchase  sports  equipment,  stationery,  medals,  certificates,  and 
other requirements as desired by the other committees, as well as preparing and finalizing the 
MoU with sponsors. 
During  sports  event/  tournament:  During  the  course  of  the  event,  the  Finance  Committee 
keeps a check on the outflow and inflow  of finances including payment and  remuneration to 
officials. 
Post sports event/ tournament: Once the event is over, the Finance Committee examines all 
records related to settlement of the bills and accounts, and prepares the financial report. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 [9]
 
1.2.5  Marketing Committee 
The Marketing Committee develops plans and strategies to place the event in the market with 
the  purpose  of  generating  publicity  and  sponsorships.  Publicity  can  be  done  through  various 
modes like social media, print media, TV, e-mail etc. and sponsorship can be generated in terms 
of cash or kind by making media partners, food partners, drink partners etc. through calling on, 
meeting various companies etc. Marketing Committee also organises campaigns related to the 
event. 
Pre sports event/ tournament: The Marketing Committee prepares a strategy for arranging for 
sponsorships, publicity of the event, arranging meetings or calling on sponsors, preparation of 
MoUs for sponsorships etc. 
During  sports  event/  tournament:  The  Marketing  Committee  issues  press  release(s),  works 
with media, manages methods of communication, fulfils the requirements of sponsors as per 
MoUs, arrangement for telecast of event etc. 
Post sports event/ tournament: Once the event is over, the Committee issues a press release, 
and may arrange for a re-telecast of the event.  
Art Integration 
Your School is hosting CBSE Regional Sports Meet. Plan and present a Folk Art for the Opening 
Ceremony. 
 
Do You Know? 
Check list to organising a sports event 
1. Formation of Organising Committees 
2. Establishment of Objectives 
3. Theme of the event 
4. Date of the event 
5. Place of the event 
6. Budget 
7. Sponsorship 
8. Marketing (Campaign) 
9. Invitations to teams and guests 
10.    Conformation of teams 
11.    Logistics (Accommodations, Refreshments,  Transportation, Medical Staff,  Water, 
table, chairs, flags, notice board) 
12.    Checking on the sponsors 

 
 [10]
13.    Drawing Fixtures and layout of field 
14.    Rules and Regulations 
15.    Arrangement of Equipment and score sheets 
16.    Arrangement of Referees and Prizes 
17.    Direction to the stadium (Sign posts) 
18.    Briefing of Volunteers and staff 
19.    Decorations 
20.    Practice and warm up Area 
21.    Security 
22.    Photographers 
 23.    Approvals License and NOCs 
 
Extension Activity 
Working in groups, write  a Press Release to  be issued by your school regarding the District 
Badminton Championship hosted by your school. 
 
I. Tick the correct option 
Q1.    The Committee responsible for liaison with Print media is 
 (a) Technical 
 (b)     Logistics 
 (c) Marketing 
 (d)     Finance 
Q2.    Purchase of sports equipment is a work of ______ committee: 
 (a) Technical 
 (b)     Logistics 
 (c) Marketing 
 (d) Finance 
Q3.    Publication of rules and regulations should be done: 
 (a) Pre event 
 (b)     During event 
 (c) Post event 
 (d)     Any time during the event 

 
 [11]
II. Answer the following questions briefly: 
Q1.    What should be the role of technical committee while organizing the event. 
Q2     Explain the role of marketing committee during the event. 
1.3.1  Tournament 
In sports, an individual generally supports a particular team or player to win the game. Winning 
helps  that  team  or  player  reach  the  next  round,  and  after  a  specified  number  of  matches,  a 
player or a team wins the Championship. While watching a tournament, you would have seen 
sometimes a player or team lose a game, and get eliminated from the tournament. However, 
in some tournaments they remain in the game despite losing. Why is this so? Basically, there 
are different types of tournament based on duration, cost, manpower, level, interest etc. that 
you will study here. 
Thus, Tournament is a series of games or matches played among players or teams to determine 
the winner. It provides an opportunity to demonstrate skills, evaluate one’s performance and 
motivate  p
    layers  to  perform  well,  attract  people  towards  sports  to  make  sports  popular  and 
provide healthy entertainment. 
A contest of many persons in some sport or game in which the competitors play a series of 
games.
7
 
A series of contest between a number of competitors.
8
 
A contest of skill in which players compete in a series of games.
9
 
A series of games or contests that make up a single unit of competition of a professional tour 
or the championship play-offs of a league or conference.
10 
A competition for teams or single players in which a series of games is played, and 
the winners of each game play against each other until only one winner is left.
11
 
1.3.2  Types of Tournaments 
There are various types of tournament formats based on advancement or elimination criteria 
of players or teams. Study the three tournament formats listed below. 
Knock  –  Out  Tournament: In  a  Knock-Out  Tournament  a  player  or  team  continues  to  play 
matches until it is defeated. In this type of format, players or teams have to consistently give 
their best performance to avoid elimination. Such a tournament saves cost and time and makes 
each match intensive because of fear of elimination. Since  fixtures are  drawn on the basis of 

 
 [12]
lots, there  is the possibility of a match  between two good teams or  players even in the early 
stages. In this system a good team can be eliminated even at the earliest stage due to getting 
defeated by chance or by accident. 
League or Round Robin: In League or Round Robin Tournament, a player or team will play the 
matches  that  are  allotted  before  the  start  of  the  tournament.  Fixed  number  of  matches  are 
given to players and teams, and losing one or all can put them out of the tournament. Players 
or teams will get equal chance to play with each other. Thus, the true winner emerges from this 
format and ranking can be prepared for all participating players or teams. However, this format 
involves more money, time and facilities as compared to the Knock-Out Tournament and there 
is no provision of seeding for extraordinary teams and players. 
Combination: They are the combination of Knock-Out and League format. Depending upon the 
need and importance of the tournament, Combination Tournaments can be Knockout- League, 
League-Knockout,  Knockout-League-Knockout  etc.  These  tournaments  are  conducted  when 
there are (a) a large number of participants, (b) participants are spread in  different areas, (c) 
venues are in different zones/places etc. In this format some of the demerits of Knockout and 
L
eague Tournaments can be eliminated. 
 
I. Tick the correct option 
Q1.    After losing a match, a team will be eliminated from the  _____. 
 (a) Knockout tournament 
 (b)     League tournament 
 (c) Round Robin tournament 
 (d)     None of above 
Q2.    Which of the following tournament helps save time? 
 (a) Knockout tournament 
 (b)     League tournament 
 (c) Combination tournament 
 (d)     Round Robin tournament 
Tournament 
Knock-Out 
League    or 
Round Robin 
Combination 

 
 [13]
II. Answer the following questions briefly: 
Q1.    Differentiate between knockout and league tournament.  
Q2.    Write merits of league tournament. 
 
1.4.1  Fixtures, Byes and Seeding 
We have learned about three types of tournaments, Now we will study how we can draw the 
fixtures. In sports, the term fixtures refers to the programme listing which team (Team A) will 
play whom (Team B), where (venue), and when (time). 
Definitions: 
a sports event or its date
12
 
“A sports match that has been arranged for a particular time and place”
 13
 
‘Fixture is a process of arrangement the team in systematic order in various groups for 
competitive fights for physical activity’.
 14
 
Thus, tie or fixture or heat include multiple and progressive matches. In athletics and swimming 
the term Heats is used, in Tennis, badminton and other games we frequently use the terms Ties 
or Fixtures. For any tournament, unbiased draws of fixtures is a road towards the success. First, 
let us understand the words “bye” and “seed”. 
Bye  - means  a  team  is  not  required  to  participate  in  the  primary  round  due  to  allotment  of 
draws.  It  should  be  given  to  any  participating  team  through  random  lottery  system.  In  a 
tournament, bye is generally assigned to teams by the organizing committee not to play a round 
due to one of the several reasons:  
• Uneven distribution of teams in tournament (In knock out tournament, number of teams 
equals to power of two [e.g., 8,  16,  32,  64, ....] and in League tournament, if there  is an 
odd number of teams. 
• Separate pooling of previous winners in same group to create even competition,  
• to avoid one team from playing more matches on a single day than the other, so creating 
disadvantage for some. 
Definitions: 
The position of a participant in a tournament who is not paired with an opponent, usally in 
the first round, and advanced to the next round without playing.
15
 
Some thing aside from the main course or consideration. 
OR 

 
 [14]
A sportsman in a tournament who is without an opponent.
16
 
The right to proceed to the next round of a competition without contesting the present 
round, often through nonappearance of an opponent.
17
 
Seeding - is a process in which teams will be placed in such a manner that good teams that have 
a  ranking  or  previous  year’s  position  etc.  do  not  meet  another  team  at  an  early  stage  of  the 
tournament. This procedure is generally implemented to reduce the chance of elimination of 
good teams at an early stage. Procedure of allotting seeding is the same as given for byes. 
Definitions: 
The process or result of seeding players for competition.
18
 
To arrange or schedule, as competitive teams or players, so that the most skilled are matched 
in the later rounds of play.
 19
 
To scatter or distribute(the names of players) so that the best players do not meetin the early 
part of a tournament.
 20
 
To  rank  a  player  according  to  the  perceived  likelihood  of  his  or  her  winning  a  specific 
tournament 
21
 
1.4.2  Procedure for Drawing Knock - Out Fixture 
Step 1 
To determine the total number of teams that will participate in the Knockout tournament.  
If the number of teams is: 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, ..... (Number being a multiple of Two) then 
there is no need of byes. You may see the procedure in Illustration : 1 and 2. If the number of 
teams is other than the given numbers, then byes will be given as per draw of lot. 
Step 2 
To determine the total number of matches to be played in the tournament, following formula 
will be used: 
Total Number of Matches= Number of teams – 1 In case of 8 teams then 
8-1= 7 matches (not including third place match)  
If number of teams are 12 then 
12-1= 11 matches (not including third place match) In case of 15 teams then 
15-1=14 (not including third place match) 
 

 
 [15]
Step 3 
The  total  number  of  teams  are  to  be  divided  into  two  halves, namely  Upper  Half  and  Lower 
Half.  
If the total number of participating teams are even in numbers the Formula will be: 
୒୳୫ୠୣ୰ ୭୤ ୲ୣୟ୫ୱ
ଶ
  = Teams in Upper Half or Lower Half 
If total number  of teams is 12 then, 
ଵଶ
ଶ
 = 6, i.e., 6 teams will be placed in Upper Half and the 
remaining 6 will be placed in Lower Half. 
If total number of participating teams are odd in numbers then Formula will be 
୒୳୫ୠୣ୰ ୭୤ ୲ୣୟ୫ୱ ା ଵ
ଶ
 = Teams in Upper Half 
୒୳୫ୠୣ୰ ୭୤ ୲ୣୟ୫ୱ ି ଵ
ଶ
  = Teams in Lower Half 
If number of teams is 15 then 
ଵହ ା ଵ
ଶ
 = 8 Teams in Upper Half 
ଵହ ି ଵ
ଶ
 = 7 Teams in Lower Half 
Thus, 8 teams will be placed in Upper Half and remaining 7 will be placed in Lower Half. 
Step 4 
After determining Upper and Lower Half Teams, byes will be given. We can determine the byes 
by finding the difference  between the number  of teams participating  in the Tournament and 
next  power  of  2  of  participating  Teams  in  the  Tournament.  For  example,  if  total  number  of 
Teams is 12, then next power of 2 will be 16. 
16-12= 4 Byes. For even numbers byes will be placed in Upper and Lower Half. 
 
ସ
ଶ
 = 2 
If total number of Teams is 19, then next power will be 32. 32-19 = 13 byes 
For odd numbers byes will be placed in Upper Half = 
ଵଷ–ଵ
ଶ
 = 6 and Lower Half = 
ଵଷାଵ
ଶ
 = 7 
Step 5 
Allotment of byes in the fixture should be given in following order:  
First bye will be given to last team of Lower Half, 
Second bye will be given to first team of Upper Half, 
Third bye will be given to last team of Upper Half,  

 
 [16]
Fourth bye will be given to first team of Lower Half 
Same pattern will be followed after fourth bye till the remaining byes have been given.  
OR 
First bye will be given to last team of Lower Half, 
Second by will be given to first team of Upper Half, 
Third bye will be given to first team of Lower Half,  
Fourth bye will be given to last team of Upper Half 
Same pattern will be followed after fourth bye till the remaining byes have been given.  
Step 6 
Write the serial number (number of participants) in vertical order. 
Divide into two halves as per Step 3. 
Then place byes as per step 5. 
Now  place  remaining  teams  through  random  lottery  system  from  top  to  bottom  or  same 
pattern used to allot byes.  
Teams having byes will not play their first-round matches. 
Put Date, Time, Venue in front of the matches in fixture. 
Illustration – 1 
Total Number of Teams = 4 
Total Number of Matches = 4-1 = 3 
Total Number of Byes= since Number having power of Two, no need of bye Number of team in 
Upper Half = 
ସ
ଶ
 = 2 
Number of team in Lower Half = 
ସ
ଶ
 = 2 
 
 
 

 
 [17]
Round I Matches 
First match between A Vs B and won by B  
Second Match between C Vs D won by D  
Round II match or Finals 
Third match Finals between B Vs D won by B 
Illustration – 2 
Total Number of Teams = 8 
Total Number of Matches = 8-1=7 
Total Number of Byes= since Number having power of Two, no need of bye Number of team in 
Upper Half = 
଼
ଶ
 = 4 
Number of team in Lower Half = 
଼
ଶ
 = 4 
 
Round I Matches 
First match between A Vs B won by A  
Second match between C Vs D won by C  
Third match between E Vs F won by F  
Fourth match between G Vs H won by G  
Round II Matches 
Fifth match between A Vs C won by C  

 
 [18]
Sixth match between F Vs G won by G  
Round III or Finals 
Seventh match Final between C Vs G won by G 
Illustration – 3 
Total Number of Teams = 11 
Total Number of Matches = 11-1=10  
Total Number of Byes= 16-11= 5  
Total Number of Byes in Upper half = 
ହିଵ
ଶ
 = 2 
Total Number of Byes in Lower half = 
ହାଵ
ଶ
 = 3 
Number of team in Upper half = 
ଵଵାଵ
ଶ
 = 6 
Number of team in Lower half = 
ଵଵିଵ
ଶ
 = 5 
 
Round I Matches 
First match between 2 Vs 3 won by 2 
Second match between 4 Vs 5 won by 4 

 
 [19]
Third match between 8 Vs 9 won by 9  
Round II Matches 
Fourth match between 1 Vs 2 won by 1 
Fifth match between 4 Vs 6 won by 6 
Sixth match between 7 Vs 9 won by 7 
Seventh match between 10 Vs 11 won by 10  
Round III Matches (semi-finals) 
Eighth match between 1Vs 6 won by 6 Ninth match between 7 Vs 10 won by 7  
Round IV or Final 
Tenth match between 6 Vs 7 won by 7 
1.4.3  Procedure to Draw League or Round Robin Fixture 
In League or Round Robin Tournament each team has to play once with all the remaining teams 
of the tournament. 
Step 1 
Determine the number of matches by applying following formula: 
Number of teams = n 
Total number of matches = 
௡ (௡ିଵ)
ଶ
 
If teams are 6 then 
଺ (଺ ି ଵ)
ଶ
  = 
ଷ଺ ି ଺
ଶ
 = 
ଷ଴
ଶ
 = 15 
This means, 15 numbers of matches will be played in league tournament. If teams are 7 then 
21 numbers of matches will be played in league tournament 
Step 2 
Here, we will study two types of methods to fix the team in league tournament namely Cyclic Method 
and Stair Case Method: 
 
Cyclic Method 
In Cyclic Method, one team will be fixed in position and the other will be placed in rotation to 
complete the cycle. In this method, two situations may arise, first if teams are even numbered, 
second  situation  if  teams  are  odd  numbered.  Let’s  see  how  to  set  fixtures  in  these  two 
situations. 

 
 [20]
Even number of teams in tournament does not require giving of any bye to any team and to 
find out number of rounds, formula will be number of teams – 1. 
Total number of teams= 6 Total number of rounds = 6–1 = 5 
 
In  order  to  draw  fixture  for odd  number  of  teams one  bye  will  be  given  to  one  team  in  one 
round and in next round another team will get a bye. Rounds in the tournament will remain the 
same. 
Total number of teams = 7 Total number of rounds = 7 
 
 
 
Staircase Method 
In Staircase Method, one team will be fixed on the highest step, and that team will play with all 
the teams of the tournament and in next step down, the next team will be fixed to play with 
other remaining teams and so on. 
Total number of Teams= 7 
A Vs B  
A Vs C B Vs C  
A Vs D B Vs D C Vs D  
A Vs E B Vs E C Vs E D Vs E  
A Vs F B Vs F C Vs F D Vs F E Vs F  
A Vs G B Vs G C Vs G D Vs G E Vs G F Vs G 

 
 [21]
 
Details of Matches 
Match No Team A Vs Team B Date Time Venue Result 
       
       
       
       
 
 
Step 3 
Determining the winner/merit in League Tournament. 
In  League  or  Round  Robin  Tournament  winner/merit  will  be  decided  on  the  basis  of  points 
awarded to the teams. Example Winner = 5, Draw =3, Loser = 0. Points tally may be as follows:  
S. No.
 Teams Match 
Played 
Match Win Match Loss Match 
Draw 
Total Points Ranking 
 
1 A 5 4 0 1 23 I 
2 B 5 3 1 1 18 II 
3 C 5 1 2 2 11 IV 
4 D 5 0 4 1 3 V 
5 E 5 1 2 2 11 IV 
6 F 5 0 0 5 15 III 
 
Tournament  organising  must  fame  the  rules  in  regards  to  tie  before  the  start  of  the 
tournament. 
1.4.4  Procedure to Draw Combination Fixture 
These fixtures are the combination of Knockout and League Tournaments. Same steps will be 
followed as are followed in Knockout and League fixtures. To draw League-Knockout fixtures, 
the following process will be executed: 

 
 [22]
League-Knockout 
Team =
    8 Matches = 
଼ (଼–ଵ)
ଶ
 = 
଺ସ–଼
ଶ
 = 
ହ଺
ଶ
 = 28 
Rounds in league = 7 
League 
Round 1 Round 2 Round3 Round4 Round 5 Round 6 Round 7 
1-8 7-8 6-8 5-8 4-8 3-8 2-8 
2-7 1-6 7-5 6-4 5-3 4-2 3-1 
3-6 2-5 1-4 7-3 6-2 5-1 4-7 
4-5 3-4 2-3 1-2 7-1 6-7 5-6 
S. No. Teams Match 
Played 
Matches 
Won 
Matches 
Lost 
Matches 
Drawn 
Total Points Ranking 
1 1 7 5 2 0 25 I(Q) 
2 2 7 2 3 2 16 V 
3 3 7 2 2 3 16 V 
4 4 7 2 4 1 13 VI 
5 5 7 3 2 2 21 II(Q) 
6 6 7 4 2 1 23 III(Q) 
7 7 7 1 4 2 11 VII 
8 8 7 3 3 1 18 IV(Q) 
 
Winner = 5, Draw =3, Loser = 0 
Top four teams namely 1, 5, 6 and 8 qualify for knockout rounds 
Tournament committee should form rules regarding placement of teams at semifinals before 
the tournament. Here we placed teams as per their ranking. Other patterns are  
1. first team may play with third and second may play with fourth ranked team or  
2. first ranked team may play with fourth ranked team and second ranked team may play 
with third ranked team or  
3. draw of lots may be another choice. 
 

 
 [23]
 
 
First semi-final match played between 1 vs 5 and won by 5 
Second semi-final match played between 6 vs 8 and won by 8 
Final match played between 5vs 8 and won by 8 
Third place match may be played between 1 vs 6 
Team 8 winner of the League-Knockout tournament 
Team 5 is runner up of the tournament. 
Do You Know? 
FIFA World cup is world largest event in term of viewership in the world. In Football World 
Cup League-Knockout combination fixtures are drawn. Starting rounds are based on League 
system, there are eight groups from A to H, each group consists of four teams. Every team in 
the  group  has  to  play  with  the  other  three  teams  in  the  group.  Top  two  teams  from  each 
group qualify for pre-quarterfinals based  on the  points table and then the knockout round 
starts till the finals. 
1.5.1  Intramural  
The meaning of the word ‘intramural’ is “within the walls”. In context of sports, it refers to a 
tournament conducted within the walls of a single institution/ school/ community. Intramural 
competitions/tournament  are  conducted  within  players  of  one  institution.  The  tournament 
may be an event/ game /more than one games and sports conducted in one day or more or in 
a month or a year, eg., Sports Day, Sports Festival, Athletics Meet, Swimming Meet, Badminton 
Tournament conducted among Houses, Classes, Hostels, Residents etc. of a school/institution. 
1.5.2  Objectives of Intramural Tournaments 
Intramurals  are  common  and  an  integral  part  of  educational  organisation and  communities, 
where teams are made among classes, houses or  groups and competitions are conducted for 
e n g a g i n g   c h i l d r e n   a n d   y o u t h   f o r   d e r i v i n g   v a r i o u s   t y p e s   o f   b e n e f i t s   t o   t h e 
participants.  Lets  understand  few  important  objective  of  intramural  tournaments.   
1. To encourage mass participation in sports in an institution. 
2. To focus on all-round development of children. 

 
 [24]
3. To develop values like fair play, respect, friendship through sports. 
4. To provide first opportunity to compete in a controlled environment. 
5. To focus on fitness, wellness and health aspects of children. 
6. To promote curricular integration through sports. 
7. To  help  children  to  develop  personality  (first  stage  of  leadership,  control  of  emotions, 
corporation etc.) 
Extension Activity 
As  the  Sports  Captain  of  your  school,  you  are  involved  in  the  selection  of  students  for 
participating in District/Region/Zone matches subsequently. 
List out the criteria you will employ for selection of 
(a) Individual Games/Sports 
(b)     Team Games/Sports 
1.5.3  Significance of Intramural Tournaments 
With  all  the  above  discussed  objectives  of  intramural  tournaments  being  implemented 
successfully, it surely brings lots of benefit to the participants. Such competitions conducted in 
a  controlled  environment  with  enough  scope  of  all  round  development  delivers  enough 
significance to the event. Lets discuss few essential significance of intramural tournaments.   
 
Selection for extramural: Intramural Tournaments provide an opportunity to select a player or 
team to participate in Extramural Tournaments. Players demonstrate skill and fitness in events 
which becomes the base for selection of a player or team.  
 
Group cohesion: This is an opportunity where students from different Classes or Houses come 
together in a team, share their experiences, display cooperation and coordination and lead the 
team to win the game. Students from different background, and communities come together 
as a group and gain self-confidence, develop social relations, tolerance in culture etc. 
Professional  experience: As  per  the  interest  of  students  and  need  of  institution,  students 
become  a  helping  hand  in  conducting  the  tournament  which  gives  them  good  experience  of 
officiating, in event management etc. In future, this experience helps them in professional and 
personal aspects. 
H
ealth: It  helps  in  developing  healthy  and  active  lifestyle.  Children  enjoy  the  sports  events 
because it is another medium to display their desired skills. It helps them to stay fit and healthy. 
Intramurals  help  in  contributing  to  the  physical,  mental,  social  and  spiritual  well-being  of 
children. 

 
 [25]
Rec
reation: Joy  and  entertainment  are  the  outcome  of  Intramural  physical  activities.  The 
elements  of  happiness  and  enjoyment  are  always  there  because  activities  are   not  so 
competitive, which makes intramural events successful. 
Mass participation: Such activities are meant for all the students of the institution not only for 
sportspersons or players. 
1.5.4  Extramural Tournaments 
The   word   ‘extramural’   means   “outside   the   boundary   or   walls”.   In   Sports   Extramural 
Tournaments  are  the  tournaments  conducted  outside  or  beyond  the  walls  of  the  organising 
unit that may be a school/college/institution. Such tournaments are conducted between two 
or  more  players/teams  of  different  schools/colleges/  institutions.  For  example,  Zonal,  Inter-
District, State, National or International Tournaments. 
1.5.5  Objectives of Extramural Tournaments 
Extramural  tournaments  are  very  popular  and  an  essential  part  of  educational  organisation, 
and communities, where a common team represents a school, colleges or group and promote 
participating  or  organising  various  inter  institution  competitions  for  engaging  children  and 
youth  into  various  types  of  benefits.    Lets  understand  few  important  objective  of  intramural 
tournaments.   
1. To achieve high performance at highest level of the tournament. 
2. To develop the feeling of integration with other institutions 
3. To provide opportunities for choosing a career in sports 
4. To promote social, cultural, economic development through sports. 
1.5.6  Significance of Extramural Tournaments 
With  all  the  above  discussed  objectives  of  extramural  tournaments  being  implemented 
successfully, it surely brings lots of benefit to the participants. Participation and organisation of 
such  inter  competitions  focusing  to  showcase  talent  and  explore  potentials  among  talented 
athletes  delivers  enough  significance  to  the  event.  Lets  discuss  few  essential  significance  of 
intramural tournaments.  
Progression  in  performance:  Extramural  Tournament  helps  to  lift  the  level  of  performance 
through  the  athletes  and  sportspersons  gaining  experience,  learning  to  prepare  tactics  and 
strategies, developing fitness, psychological preparation etc. 
Psychological  factors: E
xtramural  events  help  to  balance  psychological  factors  like  stress, 
confidence,  self-esteem,  emotions,  and  promote  qualities  like  leadership,  team  building,  in 
students. 

 
 [26]
Level of fitness: As the level of tournament increases, gradually the level of fitness improves, 
that make an individual physically as well as mentally strong to compete at higher levels. 
Socialization: Such  tournaments  held  among  different  communities,  regions,  countries  etc. 
increase  cross  cultural  exchange,  inter  community  association  etc.  in  which  individuals  get  a 
chance to know and understand different places, cultures, etc. which leads to closer ties. 
1.5.6  Specific Sports Programmes (Sports Day, Health Run, Run for Fun Run for 
Specific Cause and Run for Unity) 
Specific Sports Programme are programmes which are conducted  for specific purposes. They 
may  be  conducted  frequently  depending  on  purpose  like  the  Annual  Sports  Day  of  a  school 
where the purpose is to demonstrate the skills and abilities of children. It is not necessary that 
such programmes be conducted frequently. eg., a company can conduct a run to promote its 
product, but after it has acquired publicity, the company may discontinue the run or they may 
continue it for a social cause like promotion of health and charity. The important point is, such 
specific sports programmes must be conducted by a team of professionals including personnel 
from physical education and sports. Chances of any mishap during the event may increase due 
to unprofessional or inexperienced people. 
Sports Day- is one of the important programmes that feature in the annual calendar of most 
schools. It is an event to showcase children’s abilities and prowess on the sports field to parents. 
It also reflects the organisational strength of the institution. To celebrate Sports Day at school 
the  focus  should  not  only  be  participation  sports  person,  but  the  institution  should  aim  at 
putting  on  a  display  of  skills  of  all  the  students.  Activities  may  be  competitive  in  nature  and 
highlight students’ abilities. Major focus should be maximum engagement and involvement of 
students, parents, teachers and other stakeholders. 
In recent times, Government of India is celebrating National Sports Day on 29th August on the 
occasion of birth anniversary of Major Dhyan Chand, a hockey legend. 
Do you Know? 
Fit India Movement was launch on 29
th
 August 2019 on the occasion of birth anniversary of 
Major Dhyan Chand by Shri Narendra Modi, the Prime Minister of India. The purpose of the 
movement  is  to  promote  physical  activities  and  sports  in  masses  so  that  they  stay  fit  and 
healthy and keep away from lifestyles diseases. He said “Swasth vyakti, swasth parivar aur 
swasth samaj, yahi naye Bharat ko shresth Bharat banane ka raasta hai.” 
 
Health Run: Such kind  of  run  is generally conducted for the purpose  of  improving the health 
standards  in  society  and  creating  awareness  about  the  importance  of  physical  activities  for 
maintaining good health or for raising charity. In this run, the purpose of the runners is not to 

 
 [27]
win, but to participate in the events. To get its full impact, a large number of registrations are 
required. There is no age bar for participants; it is not a professional race so there is no need to 
run  a  long  distance.  Such  a  run  can  be  conducted  by  NGOs  or  health  departments  to  spread 
awareness about health-related issues. 
Run for Fun: The purpose of this run is to spread message of staying fit and healthy among the 
masses.  Sometimes  such  races  may  be  conducted  to  raise  funds  for  a  specific  purpose.  In 
schools  such  races  attract  children  and  their  parents.  These  are  friendly  races  and  may  be 
conducted  for  any  age.  However,  the  physical  education  teacher  must  be  careful  and  plan 
meticulously  to  avoid  any  kind  of  accident  or  mishap.  Age,  mobility,  types  of  movement 
involved should be taken care of. Examples of such races are lemon and spoon race, sack race, 
three
-legged race, parent and child race, teacher and child race, banana race, road running etc. 
Run  for  Specific  Cause: This  event  is  generally  conducted  to  spread  awareness  about  social 
issues  like  cleanliness,  promoting  green  environment  etc.  The  purpose  of  such  events  is  to 
spread awareness among the masses for a definite cause or to generate charity. eg., the specific 
cause may be cancer, AIDS, gender inequality etc. 
Run  for  Unity: In  such  a  type  of  run  the  purpose  is  to  promote  the  feeling  of  integrity  and 
brotherhood  in  community,  state,  nation  or  among  different  religions.  Such  events  help  to 
develop bonding and a sense of togetherness among people. 
Case Study 
In  the  beginning  of  the  annual  academic  planning  for  the  school,  a  physical  education 
committee meeting was held which included of the school Principal, teachers and student, 
alumni  and  parents.  The  agenda  of  discussion  was  to  plan  for  comprehensive program  for 
Physical Education and Sports for all age-groups and prepare a schedule of events along with 
recommendation  for various sub-committees to  conduct sports events. The team  released 
the schedule of the events to be conducted in the current academic year. 
As  per  interest  and  capabilities  of  students  and  teachers,  various  sub-committees  were 
recommended.  The  sub-committee  consisting  of  house  teachers  and  students  provided 
feedback  about  concerns  regarding  draws  and  fixtures  in  intramural  school  tournament 
where  the  best  teams  competed  again  each  other  in  the  initial  rounds  itself.  The  students 
also  felt  that  sometimes  the  teams  were  not  cohesive  and  did  not  display  sportsmanlike 
behaviour on or off the field. They felt such situations were unseemly and could be avoided 
through a systematic process. There was also a need to increase the coordination among the 
committees  with  more  defined  roles  and  responsibilities  of  each  member.  To  provide 
exposure to the potential athletes and for talent development, a proposal was put forward 
for  hosting  a  state-level  inter-school  competition  at  school.  To  this  end,  the  committees 
would need human resource, technical support and financial assistance. A new feature to the 
annual physical education programme, was the conducting of a mass run for crowd funding  

 
 [28]
and  to  promote  integrity  and  peace.  This  could  be  sponsored  by  various  NGOs  and 
government agencies.  
1. A suitable and systematic process for fixtures would be 
 (a) Round robin 
 (b) Bye to top teams 
 (c) Draw of lots 
 (d) Choice  
2. Responsibility for Distribution of certificate should be the role of  
 (a) Logistics Committee 
 (b) Marketing Committee 
 (c) Finance Committee 
 (d) Technical Committee 
3. The purpose for conducting a community run is for  
 (a) Talent identification 
 (b) Run for Publicity 
 (c) Sports training 
 (d) Crowd Funding 
Q. What are the tips that you, as the Sports Captain, will give your teams regarding good 
sportsmanship? 
 
I. Tick the correct option 
Q1.    National Sports Day is celebrated on 
 (a) 19th August 
 (b) 29th August 
 (c) 9th August 
 (d)     28th August 
Q2.    Which of the races is run “to promote brotherhood”? 
 (a) Run for Fun  
 (b)     Run for specific cause 
 (c) Run for Unity 
 (d)     Health Run 

 
 [29]
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
Q1.    Write any two types of Run. 
Q2.    Write the objectives of Intramural. 
Q3.    Write the significance of Extramural Tournaments. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
Q1.    How  would  you  plan  for  an  Intramural  Tournament?  Highlight any  two  problems  you 
may encounter. How will you deal with them? 
Q2.    Discuss a method you would choose to spread health awareness and harmony in your 
 area. Support your answer with reasons. 
 
Art Integration 
Prepare a report on the Annual Sports Day of your school for publishing in a National daily. 
 
 
Suggested Reading: 
 Ajmar Singh et.al. (2016). Essentials of Physical Education. Delhi: Kalyani Publication. 
 Chakraborty, S. (2007). Sports Management. Delhi: Prerna Prakashan. 
 Kamlesh, M. (2005). Methods in Physical Education. Delhi: Friends Publications . 
 Shaw, D., & Kaushik, S. (2010). Lesson Planing – Teaching Methods and Management in 
Physical Education. Delhi: Khel Sahitya Kendra. 
 
 
References: 
1
 Koontz, H., & O'Donnell, C. (1976). Management: A Book of Reading. McGraw - Hill Book. 
2
 Farland, D. E. (1970). Management: Principles and Practices. Collier-Macmillan. 
3
 Killen, K. H. (1977). Management: A Middle-management Approach. Houghton Mifflin. 
4
 C.Watt, D. (2003). Sports Management and Administration. Routledge. 
5
 J. L. Gibson. (2006). Organizations: Behavior, structure, processes. Chicago: Richard D. Irwin. 
6
 Drucker, P. F. (2006). The Practice of Management. Harper Business. 
7
 Robert K. Barnhart. (1985). The World Book Dictionary. World Book Inc. 
8
 Soanes, C. (2001). Compact Oxford Reference Dictionary. Oxford University Press. 
9
 Cayne, B. S. (1987). The New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of the English Language. Lexicon 
Publication. 
1
0
 Webster, M. (1976). Webster's Sports Dictionary. US: Merriam Webster. 
11
 Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary. (2013). Cambridge University Press. 

 
 [30]
12
 Dictionary of Sport and Exercise Science. (2006). A & C Black Publishers Ltd. 
13
 Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. (2008). Pearson Education Limited. 
14
 Physical Education and Yog (373). (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from National School of 
Open Learning: https://www.nios.ac.in/online-course-material/sr-secondary-
courses/physical-education-and-yog-(373).aspx 
15
 Robert K. Barnhart. (1985). The World Book Dictionary. World Book Inc. 
16
 Cayne, B. S. (1987). The New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of the English Language. Lexicon 
Publication. 
1
7
 Dictionary of Sport and Exercise Science. (2006). A & C Black Publishers Ltd. 
18
 Webster, M. (1976). Webster's Sports Dictionary. US: Merriam Webster. 
19
 Cayne, B. S. (1987). The New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of the English Language. Lexicon 
Publication. 
20
 Robert K. Barnhart. (1985). The World Book Dictionary. World Book Inc. 
21
 Dictionary of Sport and Exercise Science. (2006). A & C Black Publishers Ltd. 
 
 

 [31]
UNIT-II: SPORTS AND NUTRITION 
Content 
 Balanced Diet and Nutrition: Macro and Micro Nutrients 
 Nutritive and Non- Nutritive Components of Diet 
 Eating for Weight control – A Healthy Weight, The Pitfalls of Dieting, Food Intolarance 
and Food Myths 
Learning Outcomes 
After studying this unit, the students will be able to: 
 understand the concept of balanced diet and nutrition 
 classify Nutritive and Non-Nutritive components of Diet 
 identify the ways to maintain healthy weight 
 know about foods commonly causing food intolerance 
 recognize the pitfalls of dieting and food myths 
 
Discussion 
Find out and complete the worksheet in groups. 
Vitamins Benefits of Vitamins Sources 
A Needed for healthy eyes, skin,  
nervous, respiratory, digestive 
systems  
 
B Needed for better metabolism 
process 
 
C Needed for teeth, bones and 
heeling purpose 
 
D Needed for bones 
 
E Needed for restoration of cell 
membrane and body structure 
 
K Needed for blood clotting 
 
 

 [32]
2.1.1  Nutrition 
It  is  well  known  that  food  is  essential  for  survival.  Food  refers  to  any  substance  that 
nourishes  our  body  or  in  other  words,  it  is  anything  that  we  can  digest,  absorb  and  utilize, 
for  various  physiological  functions  of  the  body  including  growth  and development . Since 
the time  of  conception   in  the  mother's  womb,  providing  energy  for   our  sustenance, 
regulating activities  of  the  body  and  repairing  day  to  day  wear  and  tear, the  role  of food  is 
enormous. Food provides nutrition to the body. Hence, Nutrition is the science of food and a 
study of the process that includes everything happens to food from the time it is eaten until 
it is used for various functions in the body. It is the scientific study of foods and the nutrients 
therein;  their  action  and  interaction  and  balance,  in  health  and  diseases.  It  is  the  study  of 
ingestion, digestion, absorption, utilisation and assimilation of nutrients present in food. 
When we see any food product we recognise it as chapatti, rice, dhal, ladyfinger, apple etc. 
but  as  the  food  enters  our  mouth  it  starts  breaking  down  and  our  body  identifies  it  as 
different  chemicals  present  therein.  These  chemical  substances  which  are  present  in  food 
are  called nutrients.  Nutrients  include  carbohydrates,  proteins,  fats,  vitamins,  minerals, 
water  and  fibre  (roughage).  Different  food  stuffs  contain  these  nutrients  in  different 
amounts and proportions and our body needs each nutrient in a certain specific amount for 
various physiological functions and overall growth and development. 
Nutrients, as mentioned earlier are those chemical substances in foods that are required by 
the body for energy, growth and maintenance. Nutrients can be broadly classified as macro- 
and  micro-nutrients  depending  upon  their  daily  requirements  by  the  body.  Some  nutrients 
are    needed    in    larger    amounts,    these    are    called macronutrients. Nutrients like 
Carbohydrates,  proteins  and  fats  along  with  water  are  macronutrients.  Other  nutrients  like 
vitamins  and  minerals  are  required  in  small   amounts  and  are  called micronutrients. 
Although  these  are  required  in  smaller  amounts  but  they  are  all  equally  essential  for  our 
health. Each of these nutrients plays a significant role in the body.  
Macronutrients  are  required  by  the  body  in  relatively  large  amounts.  Carbohydrates, 
proteins and fats are macronutrients and are also called ‘proximate principles’ because they 
form the main bulk of the diet. In Indian meals, they contribute to the total energy intake in 
the  following  proportion:  carbohydrates:  55-60%;  protein:  10-15%  and  fats:  20-30%.  Water 
does  not  provide  energy  but  is  a  vital  nutrient  required  in  large  quantity  for  functioning  of 
metabolic  processes  in  the  body  and  various  regulatory  functions.  Therefore,  it  is  also 
considered a macronutrient. 
2.1.2  Carbohydrates 
Carbohydrates   are   organic   compounds   made   up   of   Carbon,   Hydrogen   and   Oxygen. 
Carbohydrates are a major source of energy and provide 4kcal per gram. Carbohydrates are 
found    in    abundance    in    plant    foods.    There    are    three    types    of    carbohydrates- 
monosaccharides, disaccharides and polysaccharides.  Monosaccharides  are  simple  single 

 [33]
units   of   sugars   like   glucose,   fructose   and   galactose.   Disaccharides   are   when   two 
monosaccharides  are  combined  together;  these  are  maltose  (glucose  +  glucose),  lactose 
(glucose   +   galactose)   and   sucrose   (glucose   +   fructose). Simple   sugars (mono   and 
disaccharides)  are  found  in  fruits  (sucrose,  glucose  and  fructose),  milk  (lactose)  and  sweets 
that  are  produced  commercially  and  added  to  foods  to  sweeten,  prevent  spoilage,  or 
improve structure and texture. 
Polysaccharides  are  more  than  two  units  of  monosaccharides  joined  together.  These  are 
starches and fibre (cellulose). These are also called complex sugars and are found  in whole 
grain cereals, rice, oats, potatoes, bread, legumes, corn and flour. 
All  these  carbohydrates  have  to  be  broken  down  to  the  smallest  unit  ie.,  glucose  to  get 
absorbed  and  utilised   in  the  body.  However,  cellulose  and   other   large  carbohydrate 
molecules cannot be digested in the human digestive tract, and are termed as fibre or non-
available carbohydrates. Sugars and starches can be digested and utilised for various bodily 
functions, hence are known as 
available carbohydrates. Diets rich in complex carbohydrates 
are healthier than low-fibre diets based on refined and processed food.  
Sources  of  carbohydrates  are  pasta,  rice,  cereal  grains,  breads,  milk,  fruit,  root  vegetables, 
sugar and products that are sweetened like jams, jellies etc., honey, jaggery. Fibre is present 
in  whole  grains  cereal  (whole  wheat  atta),  whole  pulses,  green  leafy  vegetables,  peas, 
carrot, beans and other vegetables, fruits like guava, apple, orange, pineapple etc. 
Do you Know? 
Carbohydrates are essential in the diet to prevent ketosis 
Diets for weight-loss usually recommend avoiding carbohydrates. It is however, essential 
to  have  at  least  50-100gm  of  carbohydrate  per  day  for  complete  oxidation  of  fat  and 
avoidance of excessive production of ketone bodies. Inadequate supply of carbohydrates 
causes break down of body fat reserves for energy. This not only supplies energy but also 
produces  ketone  bodies.  Some  ketone  bodies  are  used  by  muscle  and  other  tissues  for 
energy,  but  when  produced  in  excess  they  accumulate  in  blood  and  cause  ketosis 
(disturbance  of  normal  acid-  base  balance).  This  condition  is  generally  seen  in  Diabetics 
and is a life- threatening situation. 
Summary - Macronutrients, their functions and sources 
Nutrient Function Sources 
 
Carbohydrates
 
 
 
Carbohydrates  provide  energy  needed  by  the 
body  and  the  nervous  system,  brain  and  red 
blood  cells;  spare  proteins  for  their  important 
functions   (if   enough   carbohydrates   are   not 
available,  proteins  are  used  for  energy-giving); 
Fruits, cereal grains, 
milk, suger, rice, 
vegetables, pasta, 
breads 
 

 [34]
 enable  proper  utilisation  of  fat  by  providing 
substrates for fat metabolism.  
 
 
 Roughage 
Dietary  fibre  or  roughage provides  feeling  of 
fullness ie., one does not feel hungry soon after 
having  a  meal:  provides  bulk  to  the  diet,  helps 
in   smooth   elimination   of   stool   or   faeces; 
prevents   diseases   like   cancer,   diabetes   and 
heart  disease,  has  cholesterol  lowering  effect; 
Provides energy (4Kcal/gm) 
Whole grain cereals 
(whole wheat atta), 
whole pulses, GLVs, 
peas,   beans   and   other 
vegetables,     fruits     like 
guava, orange, pineapple
 
Proteins Proteins  build  and  repair  body  cells;  form  part 
of  various  enzymes,  hormones,  and  antibodies; 
Provide energy (4 Kcal/ gm) 
Milk  and  milk  products, 
vegetables,   grains,   fish, 
eggs, poultry, meat, 
legumes 
 
Fats Fats  provide  energy  (9kcal/g);  carry  fat-soluble 
vitamins;     are     part     of     cell     membranes, 
membranes  around  nerves,  hormones,  bile  (for 
fat digestion) 
Meat,  poultry,  fish,  milk 
and  milk  products,  nuts 
and     seeds,     vegetable 
oils, desi ghee, vanaspati 
ghee,  butter,  margarine, 
cheese 
 
2.1.3  Proteins 
List of Essential and Non-Essential Amino Acids 
 

 [35]
Proteins   are   organic   compounds   containing   nitrogen,   besides,   carbon,   oxygen   and 
hydrogen.  Protein  molecules  have  a  complex  structure,  and  are  made  up  of  nitrogen 
containing amino acids. Amino acids are linked together in chains to make different type of 
proteins  in  the  body.  From  hair  to  nails,  muscles  to  skin,  organs  to  blood,  hormones  to 
enzymes,  protein  is  a  major  structural  and  functional  component  of  our  body.  There  are 
around  20  amino  acids  joined  together  in  varying  sequences  to  form  different  kinds  of 
proteins.  There  are  nine  amino  acids  which  cannot  be  synthesized  by  the  body;  these  are 
called  Essential  Amino  Acids  (EAA).  These  have  to  be  supplied  in  the  diet.  Others  are  non-
essential amino acids as these can be synthesized in the body. 
Depending  on  the  availability  of  these  essential  amino  acids  in  foods,  they  are  classified  as 
complete  protein  foods, partially  complete  protein  foods and incomplete  protein  foods. 
Complete  protein  foods  are  those  which  contain  all  essential  amino  acids  in  adequate 
amounts.  These  food  sources  include  foods  from  animal  sources  like  eggs,  milk  and  milk 
products,  meat  and  meat  products  and  a  plant  source,  soybean,  that  contains  all  essential 
amino acids. Protein quality is determined by the presence of complete protein foods in the 
diet;  it  improves  the  absorption  and  utilization  of  protein  in  the  body.  Partially  complete 
protein  foods  are  those  which  are  lacking  in  any  one  essential  amino  acid  eg.,  cereals  and 
pulses.  Cereals  lack  lysine  and  pulses  lack  methionine.  To  improve  the  protein  quality, 
cereals  and  pulses  can  be  taken  together  in  a  meal  or  can  be  combined  with  sources  of 
complete  protein  foods.  Incomplete  proteins  are those  which  are  lacking  in  more  than  one 
EAA. An example of this protein is maize protein. 
Do you Know? 
Protein requirement for Indian adults is 1 g/kg body weight (according to RDA 2010; ICMR). 
Thus,  for  a  man  weighing  60  kg,  the  protein  requirement  would  be  60g/day.  In  terms  of 
percentage of total energy intake, protein intake should be between 10-15% of total energy 
consumed.  In  no  case,  it  should  exceed  35%  of  total  energy  intake.  Protein  requirement, 
however,  may  increase  to  up  to  2  g/kg  body  weight  during  sports  and  exercise  depending 
upon the type of sports and duration and intensity of training. Too little, or, excess intake of 
protein  have  health  implications,  hence  proteins  should  be  consumed  as  required  and 
recommended. 
2.1.4  Fats (Lipids) 
Lipids  or  Dietary  Fats  a  broader  term  used  for  both  oils  and  fats.  Oils  are  basically liquid  at 
room  temperature  and  fats  are  solid  at  room  temperature.  It  is  the  presence  of  different 
types of fatty acids which make them liquid or solid. 
Fatty acids are the building blocks of  fats and oils. Fatty acids are classified as Saturated or 
Unsaturated Fats depending upon the presence of double bond in their chemical structure. 

 [36]
Saturated  fatty  acids  (SFA)  contain  no  double  bonds,  monounsaturated  fatty  acids  (MUFA) 
contain  one,  and  polyunsaturated  fatty  acids  (PUFA)  contain  more  than  one  double  bond. 
When the percentage of saturated fatty acids is higher, the fat is solid at room temperature 
and  when  the  percentage  of  unsaturated  fatty  acids  (MUFA  or  PUFA)  is  higher  the  lipid  is 
liquid at room temperature and is called oil. 
Saturated  fats which  are  also  called  as  animal  fats  are  associated  with  increased  health 
risks. They can increase risk of heart disease by increasing total and LDL ("bad") cholesterol. 
It  has  been  recommended  that  the  intake  of  saturated  fats  be  kept  less  than  7%  of  total 
calories. Desi  ghee,  butter,  cheese,  cream,  red  meats,  baked  products,  and  other  full-fat 
dairy  products  are  the  main  sources  of  saturated  fats  in  most  diets.  Coconut  and  palm  oils 
also contain saturated fats. 
Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids are unsaturated fats. When they replace 
saturated  fats  in  the  diet,  they  help  to  reduce  blood  cholesterol  levels  and  thus  lower  the 
risk  of  heart  disease.  Canola,  olive,  peanut,  palm  olein,  rice  bran  and til (sesame)  oils  and 
other nuts like walnuts are rich in monounsaturated fats. Sources of PUFA include vegetable 
oils, mustard, soybean, corn, safflower and sunflower oils and flaxseed. 
Dietary fat can be attained from visible as well as invisible sources. Visible sources are ghee, 
butter, cooking oil etc. while invisible sources include nuts, cereals, pulses, milk, eggs, meat 
etc.  Invisible  fat  contributes  significantly  to  the  total  fat  and  essential  fatty  acid  content  of 
diet depending on the food stuffs present in the diet. The total fat (visible + invisible) should 
provide  between 15-30% of total calories required and contribution of visible  fat should be 
restricted to 20-30g per day depending upon the physical activity levels of the individual. 
Do you know? 
It  has  been  recommended  that  total  fat  intake  should  be  20-30%  of  calories  for  adults  to 
meet daily energy and nutritional needs while minimizing risk of chronic diseases. The intake 
of  saturated  fats  should  be  less  than  7%  of  calories,  cholesterol  should  be  less  than  300 
mg/day,  and  trans  fatty  acid  consumption  should  be  as  low  as  possible.  Consumption  of 
certain  fatty  acids  (MUFA  and  PUFA)  are  encouraged  because  of  their  positive  health 
effects,  like  oils  from  foods  such  as  vegetable  oils,  nuts,  rice  bran  and  fish  because  of  their 
healthy attributes. In view of this, an ideal quality fat for good health is one which maintains 
a  balance  between  SFA,  MUFA  and  PUFA.  This  can  be  maintained  by  combined  use  of 
various oils for example, mustard oil with sunflower oil, or safflower oil with palm oil etc. 
Cholesterol  is  a  fat-like  substance  which  is  synthesized  in  the  body.  It  is  necessary  in  many 
physiological  processes  such  as:  it  is  a  component  of  cell  membranes,  it  is  required  in  the 
production  of  bile  acids  (which  aid  in  food  digestion),  and  in  the  production  of  sex 
hormones. An excess of cholesterol in the blood, however, can lead to deposits in the walls 
of  blood  vessels  and  reduce  blood  flow  to  major  arteries,  which  can  lead  to  a  heart  attack. 

 [37]
Dietary  cholesterol  is  found  only  in  animal  foods  such  as  egg  yolks,  butter,  organ  meats, 
beef  and  chicken.  Vegetable  oils  are  cholesterol-free.  Excess  intake  of  dietary  cholesterol 
increases blood cholesterol levels, but not as much as saturated and trans-fats do. 
Trans-fatty  acids  are  basically  produced  by  the  process  called  hydrogenation.  It  is  the 
process  of  adding  hydrogen  molecules  directly  to  unsaturated  fatty  acids  such  as  those 
found in vegetable oil to make it saturated or solid. Hydrogenated oils contribute important 
textural and stability properties in food. 
Trans-fatty  acids  occur  naturally  in  beef,  lamb,  and  dairy  products.  However,  the  main 
sources  of  trans  fats  are  foods  such  as  cookies,  biscuits, mixtures, namkeens,  pastries  and 
other fried foods. Trans-fatty acids are similar to saturated fats and dietary cholesterol with 
regard to their effect on blood low-density lipoprotein (LDL – which is a “harmful” or “bad”) 
cholesterol.  Trans-fats  may  also  lower  high-density  lipoprotein  (HDL  –  which  is  a  good) 
cholesterol. 
2.1.5  Vitamin 
Vitamins  are  the  chemicals  which  our  body  needs  in  small  amounts  to  function  properly. 
They work in a variety of ways, mostly as ‘helpers’ eg., many of the B-vitamins help the body 
use protein, fats, and carbohydrates. 
Do you know? 
Each  red  blood  cell  contains  haemoglobin  which  is  the  iron-containing  protein  that  transports 
oxygen  from  the  lungs  to  other  parts  of  the  body.  In  haemoglobin,  each  subunit  contains  a  heme 
group; each heme group contains an iron atom that is able to bind to one oxygen molecules. 
 
Vitamins are divided into two categories: 
1. Water-soluble vitamins include all the B vitamins and vitamin C. The amount of water-
soluble vitamins that body doesn't use passes through the kidneys and leaves the body 
as urine or stool. 
 The body needs water-soluble vitamins in frequent, small doses, and they are unlikely 
to reach toxic levels. 
2. Fat-soluble vitamins include vitamins A, D, E, and K. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in 
the body cells and are not passed out of the  body as easily as water-soluble vitamins. 
They  are  more  likely  to  reach  toxic  levels  if  a  person  takes  in  too  much  of  these 
vitamins. 
The  table-2.i  and  2.ii  lists  the  water-soluble  and  fat-soluble  vitamins;  their  functions  and 
their sources in the foods we eat. 

 [38]
Table 2.i - Water-soluble vitamins 
Nutrient Function Sources 
Thiamine 
(vitamin B1) 
Works as coenzyme-(Thiamine 
pyrophosphate-TPP) needed for 
energy    metabolism;    important    for 
nerve  function;  needed  for  DNA  and 
RNA synthesis 
Whole-grain    cereals,    pulses, 
peanuts and seeds, 
mushrooms, green peas, 
beans, egg yolk and meat 
Riboflavin 
(vitamin B2) 
Act as two coenzymes- Flavin 
mononucleotide    (FMN)    and    Flavin 
adenine   dinucleotide   (FAD)   needed 
for  energy  metabolism;  important  for 
normal vision and skin health 
Milk  and  milk  products;  animal 
products like eggs, liver, 
kidney;  green  leafy  vegetables 
eg., brocoli; whole-grain 
cereals; legumes 
Niacin (vitamin 
B3) 
Part  of  an  coenzymes-  Nicotinamide 
adenine     dinucleotide     (NAD)     and 
nicotinamide    adenine    dinucleotide 
phosphate  (NADP)  needed  for  energy 
metabolism;   important   for   nervous 
system, digestive system, and skin 
whole-grain     cereals,     pulses, 
meat,  poultry,  fish,  vegetables 
(especially mushrooms, 
asparagus,    and    green    leafy 
vegetables), peanuts and 
peanut butter. 
 
Eggs     and     milk     and     milk 
products   lack   niacin   but   are 
rich sources of EAA- 
tryptophan     which     can     be 
converted to niacin in the body 
when    required.    60    mg    of 
tryptophan  can  be  converted 
to provide 1 mg niacin. 
Vitamin B6 
(Pyridoxal, 
pyridoxine and 
pyridoxamine) 
Part of coenzyme pyridoxal phosphate 
needed  for  protein  and  amino  acid 
metabolism    and    also    involved    in 
activity of many enzymes required  for 
carbohydrate, fat and protein 
metabolism.  It  also  helps  in  making 
white    blood    cells    and    heme    in 
haemoglobin. 
Meat,     Poultry,     fish,     Nuts, 
sunflower  seeds,  pulses,  whole 
grains, spinach, bananas, 
potatoes. 

 [39]
Biotin Functions  as  coenzyme  in  metabolic 
reactions. 
Widespread  in foods like organ 
meats,  such  as  liver  or  kidney; 
egg yolk; nuts, such as 
almonds, peanuts, and 
walnuts;   soybeans   and   other 
legumes; whole grains; 
bananas; cauliflower, 
mushrooms;  also  produced  in 
intestinal tract by bacteria 
Pantothenic acid Part of co-enzyme A (CoA) needed for 
energy metabolism 
Widespread    in    foods:    milk, 
meat, peanuts, eggs 
Folic acid /Folate Part  of  an  enzyme  needed  for  making 
DNA   and   new   cells,   especially   red 
blood cells, formation of 
neurotransmitters, needed for 
maintenance of normal blood 
pressure and reducing risk of cancer 
Green leafy vegetables 
particularly     spinach,     pulses, 
oranges  and  orange  juice,  and 
liver.    Other    vegetables    like 
cabbage,   cauliflower,   broccoli 
are also good sources 
Cobalamin 
(vitamin B12) 
Part     of     two     coenzymes     methyl 
cobalamin   and   5-   deoxy   adenosyl 
cobalamin,  needed  for  making  new 
cells; important to nerve function 
Meat,   poultry,   fish,   seafood, 
eggs,  milk  and  milk  products; 
not found in plant foods 
Ascorbic acid 
(vitamin C) 
Antioxidant, role in collagen 
formation   hence   in   wound   healing, 
part of an enzyme needed  for protein 
metabolism;   important   for   immune 
system, helps in iron absorption 
Found  in  fruits  and  vegetables, 
especially   citrus   fruits,   fresh 
vegetables    in    the    cabbage 
family,     sprouts,     amla     and 
guava 
 
 
Fat-soluble vitamins 
Fat-soluble  vitamins  are  stored  in  the  body's  cells  and  are  not  excreted  as  easily  as  water- 
soluble  vitamins.  Intake  of  high  amounts  of  fat-soluble  vitamins  could  become  toxic.  A 
balanced diet usually provides enough fat-soluble vitamins. 
  

 [40]
Table 2.ii - Fat-soluble vitamins 
Nutrient Function Sources 
Vitamin A (Retinol 
and its 
precursor*,   beta- 
carotene) 
 
*A    precursor    is 
converted  by  the 
body to the 
vitamin. 
Needed  for  vision  in  dim  light, 
healthy     skin     and     mucous 
membranes, growth of 
skeletal     and     soft     tissues, 
immune system health 
Vitamin     A     from     animal     sources 
(retinol):  milk,  cheese,  cream,  butter, 
egg yolk, liver 
 
Beta-carotene   (from   plant   sources):, 
dark  green  leafy  vegetables;  red  and 
yellow  fruits  and  vegetables  (carrots, 
pumpkin, mangoes, papaya) 
Vitamin D Needed  for  proper  absorption 
of   calcium   and   phosphorus; 
deposition    of    calcium    and 
phosphorus in bones 
Egg   yolks,   liver,   fatty   fish,   fortified 
foods.  When  exposed  to  sunlight,  the 
skin can make vitamin D. 
Vitamin E Antioxidant; protects cell walls    Polyunsaturated   plant   oils   (soybean, 
corn,   cottonseed,   safflower);   green 
leafy  vegetables;  wheat  germ;  whole-
grain  products;  liver;  egg  yolks;  nuts 
and seeds 
Vitamin K Needed     for     proper     blood 
clotting 
green  leafy  vegetables  and  cabbage; 
milk;  also  produced  in  intestinal  tract 
by bacteria 
2.1.6  Minerals 
Minerals   are   inorganic   elements   which   are   required   by   the   body  needs   for   various 
physiological   functions.  There  are  minerals  required  in   larger  amounts  called  macro-
minerals and those required in smaller amounts are called micro-minerals (trace minerals). 
Tables  3.i  and  3.ii  list  important  macro-  and  micro-minerals,  their  functions  and  their 
sources in the foods we eat. 
Table 3.i - Macro-minerals 
Mineral Function Sources 
Sodium Needed for proper fluid balance, 
regulating  alkalinity  and  acidity  of  body 
Table     salt,     soy     sauce;     large 
amounts in processed foods; small 

 [41]
fluids,   nerve   transmission,   and   muscle 
contraction 
amounts   in   milk,   breads,   green 
leafy vegetables, and unprocessed 
meats 
Chloride Needed for proper fluid balance, 
stomach acid 
Table    salt,    soya    sauce;    large 
amounts in processed foods; small 
amounts  in  milk,  meats,  breads, 
and vegetables 
Potassium Needed  for  proper  fluid  balance,  nerve 
transmission, and muscle contraction 
Meats,    milk,    fresh    fruits    and 
vegetables, whole grains, pulses 
Calcium Important  for  healthy  bones  and  teeth; 
helps     muscles     relax     and     contract; 
important   in   nerve   functioning,   blood 
clotting,     blood     pressure     regulation, 
immune system health 
Milk  and  milk  products;  fish  with 
bones    (eg.,    sardines);    fortified 
soya milk; greens (broccoli, 
mustard leaves); pulses 
Phosphorus Important  for  healthy  bones  and  teeth; 
found  in  every  cell;  part  of  the  system 
that maintains acid-base balance 
Meat,   fish,   poultry,   eggs,   milk, 
processed foods 
Magnesium Found   in   bones;   needed   for   making 
protein, muscle contraction, nerve 
transmission, immune system health 
Nuts   and   seeds;   pulses;   leafy, 
green vegetables; seafood; 
chocolate 
Sulphur Found in protein molecules Occurs  in  foods  as  part  of  protein 
in  meats,  poultry,  fish,  eggs,  milk, 
pulses, nuts 
 
Trace minerals (micro-minerals) 
The  body  needs  trace  minerals  in  very  small  amounts.  Although  iron  is  considered  to  be  a 
trace mineral, the amount needed is somewhat more than for other micro-minerals. 
Table 3.ii - Trace minerals 
Mineral Function Sources 
Iron Iron  is  a  mineral  found  in  every  cell  of  the 
body.    Iron    is    considered    an    essential 
mineral  because  it  is  found  in  red  blood 
cells  as  part  of  haemoglobin  that  carries 
oxygen  to  every  cell  in  the  body;  part  of 
myoglobin  needed  for  muscle  contraction, 
Organ  meats;  red  meats;  fish; 
poultry;     egg     yolks;     whole 
pulses and whole grain 
cereals;     dried     fruits;     dark 
green leafy vegetables 
(mustard greens, bathua); 

 [42]
needed    for    energy    metabolism,    hence 
crucial in helping perform physical work 
iron-enriched breads and 
cereals; and fortified cereals 
Zinc Part     of     many     enzymes     needed     for 
synthesizing  protein  and  genetic  material; 
has  a  function  in  taste  perception,  wound 
healing, normal foetal development, 
production  of  sperm,  normal  growth  and 
sexual  maturation,  important  for  immune 
system 
Meats,    fish,    poultry,    whole 
grains, vegetables 
Iodine Found   in   thyroid   hormone,   which   helps 
regulate growth, development, and 
metabolism 
Seafood, foods grown in 
iodine-rich   soil,   iodized   salt, 
bread, dairy products 
Selenium Antioxidant Meats, seafood, grains 
Copper Part  of  many  enzymes;  needed  for  iron 
metabolism 
Pulses,  nuts  and  seeds,  whole 
grains,  organ  meats,  drinking 
water 
Manganese Part of many enzymes Widespread in foods, 
especially plant foods 
Fluoride Involved  in  formation  of  bones  and  teeth; 
helps prevent tooth decay 
Drinking water (either 
fluoridated or naturally 
containing  fluoride),  fish,  and 
most teas 
Chromium Works   closely   with   insulin   to   regulate 
blood sugar (glucose) levels 
Organ  meats  especially  liver, 
whole grains, nuts, cheese 
Molybdenum Part of some enzymes Pulses,    breads    and    grains; 
green   leafy   vegetables,   milk; 
liver 
 
Other   trace   nutrients   known   to   be   essential   in   tiny   amounts   include   nickel,   silicon, 
vanadium, and cobalt. 
2.1.7  Water 
Water  is  essential  for  life.  Water  is  an  inorganic  compound  made  up  of  hydrogen  and 
oxygen. Water is a major component of our body and it makes up to 60% of the total weight 

 [43]
of  an  individual.  It  is  the  medium  of  all  body  fluids  including  blood,  saliva,  digestive  juices, 
urine, faeces, sweat and perspiration. 
Water  plays  an  important  role  in  the  regulation  of  body  temperature.  It  is  also  a  universal 
solvent. Water bathes the body cells and keeps them moist. Hence, it acts as a lubricant. It is 
also an important lubricant for the joints. 
Our body gets water mainly by ingestion of water in the form of liquids; water taken as such 
or in the form of beverages like tea, coffee, fruit juices and aerated drinks. In other foods 
like  vegetables,  fruits,  milk,  cereals  and  pulses,  water  is  present  in  invisible  form.  It  is 
important that clean, safe and wholesome water is consumed in order to avoid water-borne 
diseases such as diarrhoea, dysentery and cholera. 
2.1.8  Balanced Diet 
Depending  on  the  presence  of  nutrients  in  different  food  stuffs,  foods  have  been  divided 
into different food groups. These are: 
1. Cereals  and  Millets:  Cereals  and  millets  include  foods  like  wheat,  rice,  jowar,  bajra, 
ragi  etc.  Majorly  provide carbohydrates.  Cereals  also  provide  protein  (protein  quality 
can  be  improved  by  consuming  it  with  pulses),  B-vitamins,  iron  (bajra)  and  calcium 
(ragi). 
2. Pulses:  Pulses  include  all  whole  and  washed dhals like  red  gram  (lobia),  Bengal  gram 
(chana),  lentils,  green  gram  (moong)  etc.  Pulses  provide protein (protein  quality  is 
improved  by  combining  it  with  cereals).  They  are  also  a  fair  source  of  carbohydrates 
and  B-vitamins  especially  thiamine  and  niacin.  Whole  pulses  also  provide  iron  and 
fibre; sprouts provide vitamin C. 
3. Milk  and  Milk  Products: This  group  includes  foods  like  milk,  curd,  cheese,  paneer, 
khoa  etc.  The  major  nutrient  it  gives  is  good  quality protein,  besides  providing  other 
nutrients  like  carbohydrates,  fat  (whole  milk),  calcium  and  riboflavin.  Milk  and  milk 
products are generally sources of all nutrients except iron and vitamin C. 
4. Meat  and  Meat  Products: These  include  foods  like  meat,  fish,  chicken,  egg  and 
products made with these. This group is a major source of good quality protein. Other 
nutrients  supplied  by  this  group  are  B-vitamins,  retinol  (liver)  and  calcium  (fish).  Eggs 
particularly are good sources of most nutrients. 
5. Nuts  and  Oil  Seeds: Nuts  and  oil  seeds  eg.,  groundnuts,  almonds,  cashew  nuts, til 
seeds,  pistachio  etc.  are  a  good  source  of  fat.  They  also  provide  protein,  B-vitamins, 
calcium and other minerals. 

 [44]
6. Green  Leafy  Vegetables  (GLVs): These  include  vegetables  like  mustard  (sarson), 
bathua,  fenugreek  leaves  (methi),  spinach  (palak).  Green  leafy  vegetables  are  a  good 
source  of carotene (vitamin  A,  B-vitamins  (especially  riboflavin  and  folic  acid),  iron 
(especially sarson and bathua)  and fibre.  They  are  also  a  source  of  calcium,  but 
presence  of  oxalates  in  GLVs  bind  calcium  and  make  most  of  it  unavailable  for 
absorption and utilisation. Fresh GLVs provide vitamin C. 
7. Root  Vegetables: These  include  potato,  colocasia,  sweet  potato,  yam  etc.  Major 
nutrient  supplied  by  root  vegetables  is carbohydrate.  Carotene  is  provided  only  by 
yellow yam. 
8. Other Vegetables: All other vegetables like brinjal, ladyfinger (okra), beans, cauliflower 
etc. provide fibre, vitamins, some amount of minerals. 
9. Fruits:  Wide  variety  of  fruits  is  available  in  the  market.  Different  fruits  are  sources  of 
different  nutrients;  hence  a  combination  of  various  fruits  should  be  included  in  the 
balanced  diet.  Fruits  like  mangoes,  apricots,  oranges,  papaya  are  rich  in carotene, 
citrus  fruits  like  orange, mausambi, amla and  guavas  are  good  sources  of vitamin  C,  dried 
fruits like dates and raisins are rich in iron. Fibre is provided by most fruits. 
10.    Sugar and Jaggery: These are simply carbohydrates. Jaggery also has iron. 
11.    Fats  and  Oils:  Include ghee,  oil,  butter  etc.  are  a  rich  source  of fat.  Vitamin  D  also  is 
provided by butter/fortified oils. 
Food groups can also be classified according to their functions: 
Group 1. Energy giving foods- This category includes foods rich in carbohydrate and fat 
1. Cereals and roots and tubers 
2. Sugar and jaggery 
3. Fats and oils 
Group 2. Body building group – this category includes foods rich in protein 
1. Milk and milk products 
2. Meat and meat products, fish, egg or poultry 
3. Pulses 
4. Nuts and oilseeds 
Group  3. Protective  or  regulatory  foods –  This  group  include  foods  providing vitamins  and 
minerals 
I, Fruits- 
 (a) yellow and orange fruits (mango, papaya) 
 (b)     citrus fruits (lemon, orange, mausambi) 
 (c) others (apple, banana etc.) 

 [45]
II. Vegetables 
 (a) Green leafy vegetables (spinach, mustard, fenugreek etc.) 
 (b)     Yellow and orange vegetables (carrot, pumpkin) 
 (c) Others (beans, okra, cauliflower etc.) 
 (d)     Root vegetables- potatoes and yam (arvi) are rich in carbohydrates 
It is important to consume a balanced diet in order to get all the nutrients in right amounts 
and  right  proportions.  This  means  that  in  any  given  meal,  foods  from  all  the  food  groups 
should  be  included  in  such  a  manner  that  all  the  nutrients  are  supplied  in  adequate 
quantities.  One  has  to  ensure  that  each  and  every  meal  includes  foods  from  the  energy-
giving, body building and protective/regulatory groups. eg., For breakfast include one source 
from energy giving foods (bread- 2 slices; jam),  one food from  body building foods (egg for 
non-vegetarians  or paneer or  sprouts  for  vegetarians  along  with  milk)  and  any  one  or  two 
foods from protective group (fruit/fruit juice). Similarly, for lunch and dinner different foods 
from these food groups can be chosen in a variety of combinations. This way, the diet would 
provide all essential nutrients and would become balanced. 
Thus, a balanced diet can be defined as one which contains different types of foods in such 
quantities and proportions that the need for calories, minerals, vitamins and other nutrients 
is adequately met and a small provision is made for extra nutrients to withstand the period 
of leanness ie., when adequate food or a particular nutrient is not consumed. 
Moreover,   the   action   and   interaction   of   the   nutrients   should   be   considered.   Foods 
promoting  absorption  of  certain  nutrients  or  hindering  absorption  of  nutrients  should  also 
be  kept  in  mind.  For  example,  consuming  tea  along  with  meals  hampers  the  absorption  of 
iron  while  taking  sources  of  vitamin  C  with   meals  increases  the  absorption  of  iron. 
Imbalance  of  nutrients  sometimes  does  not  allow  proper  absorption  and  utilisation  of 
another  nutrient.  eg.,  calcium  is  needed  for  building  of  bones  and  teeth  and  phosphorus  is 
also needed for the same. Excess amount of phosphorus in the diet does not allow body to 
utilise  calcium  properly  and  affects  bone  and  teeth  formation.  Therefore,  these  two 
nutrients should be supplied in correct proportions and adequate amounts. 
Extension Activity 
Working in groups, prepare diet plans for the following:- 
Name of the Activity. 
 
Diet plan for building muscle 
for a vegetarian athlete. 
 

 [46]
Diet plan for building muscle 
for a non-vegetarian athlete. 
 
Eating strategies for a person 
who wants to lose 15kg. 
 
Eating strategies for a person 
who wants to gain 10kg. 
 
 
 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1.    Which is NOT a Micronutrient? 
 (a) Minerals 
 (b)     Vitamins 
 (c) Water 
 (d) Protein 
Q2.     Which of the following is a water-soluble vitamin? 
 (a) Vitamin A 
 (b)     Vitamin B 
 (c) Vitamin D 
 (d)     Vitamin K 
Q3.    Iron is a part of 
 (a) trace minerals 
 (b)     macro minerals 
 (c) vitamins 
 (d)     carbohydrate 
Q4.    Fats and oils come under: 
 (a) protective or regulatory foods 
 (b)     energy giving foods 
 (c) bodybuilder group 
 (d)     routine foods 
Q5.    1 gram of fat provides 
 (a) 3 kcal 

 [47]
 (b)     4 Kcal 
 (c) 5 Kcal 
 (d)     9 Kcal 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What are macronutrients? 
2. Explain the importance of fluid intake during a competition. 
3. Write the source of 3 micro and 3 macro minerals. 
4. What should be the basic nutrient in a weightlifter’s diet? Why? 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. What do you understand by a balanced diet? 
2. Explain different types of nutrients and their sources. 
3. List the essential nutrients, their sources and functions. 
4. Critically  explain  the  use  of  dietary  supplements  in  heavy  dose  for  longer  duration. 
Justify your answer with suitable examples. 
2.2.1  Nutritive and Non-Nutritive Components of Diet 
Food  is  the  basic  requirement  of  every  individual  which  develops  our  body.  It  provides 
sufficient  energy  for  workout  and  helps  in  the  growth  and  development  of  individual.  The 
food  which  we  eat  contains  various  nutrients  which  are  essential  for  our  body.  There  are 
large  number  of  nutrients  required  in  our  balanced  diet.  Some  of  them  are  “Nutritive 
components”  like  Carbohydrates,  Fats,  and  Proteins,  whereas  some  other  components  of 
diet have no nutritive value. 
2.2.2  Non-Nutritive Components of Diet 
Foods  we  eat  contain  a  wide  range  of  organic  chemical  compounds  some  of  which  have 
nutritive   value   as   discussed   above,   while   some   have   no   nutritional   value.   Chemical 
compounds   in   foods   with   no   specific   nutritional   function   are   called   as   non-nutritive 
components of foods. Some of these components act as anti-nutritional factors like phytate 
while  some  have  various  benefits  like  those  of  phytochemicals.  Some  materials  with  no 
nutritional  value  are  added  to  food  and  beverage  products  to  make  the  food  smell  better, 
taste  better,  last  longer,  and/or  look  better.  Some  of  the  non-nutritive  components  are 
discussed below. 

 [48]
2.2.3  Non-Nutritive Factors that Interfere with Nutrient Absorption 
Anti-Nutritional   Factors   (ANFs),   or   non-nutritive   factors   that   interfere   with   nutrient 
absorption,  are  those  biological  compounds  present  in  human  or  animal  foods  that  reduce 
nutrient  utilization  or  food  intake,  thereby  contributing  to  impaired  gastrointestinal  and 
metabolic performance. These include: 
1. Phytates  - These  are  abundantly  found  in  unrefined  cereals  and  millets.  These 
phytates bind iron, zinc, calcium and magnesium and make these nutrients unavailable 
for digestion. On germination the phytate content is reduced. 
2. Tannins-  These  are  present  in  legumes,  millets  like bajra, ragi,  spices,  tamarind,  tea, 
turmeric  and  in  certain  vegetables  and  fruits.  Tannins  interfere  with  iron  and  protein 
absorption. 
3. Trypsin  Inhibitors-  These  inhibit  the  activity  of  trypsin  in  the  gut  and  interfere  with 
digestibility  of  dietary  proteins  and  reduce  their  utilisation.  These  are  present  in  soya 
bean, duck egg white. Heat treatment inactivates trypsin inhibitors. 
4. Oxalates-  These  are  present  in  green  leafy  vegetables  and  some  legumes.  These 
interfere with calcium absorption. 
5. Goitrogens-  These  are  also  known  as  anti-thyroid  substances  as  these  interfere  with 
iodine   uptake   by   thyroid   gland   and   may   contribute   to   development   of   iodine 
deficiency  disorders  when  iodine  intakes  are  marginal.  These  are  present  in  cabbage, 
cauliflower, turnips, soybean, bajra, peanuts, lentils. 
2.2.4  Beneficial Non-Nutritive Factors of Foods 
1. Phytochemicals-   Phytochemicals   are   chemical   compounds   produced   by   plants, 
generally  to  help  them  thrive  or  thwart  competitors,  predators,  or  pathogens.  The 
name comes from Greek phyton, meaning 'plant'. They are found in fruits, vegetables, 
grains,  beans,  and  other  plants.  Some  of  these  phytochemicals  are  believed  to  act  as 
antioxidants and protect cells from damage that could lead to cancer. 
 Risk  of  cancer  can  be  reduced  by  eating  more  colourful  vegetables,  fruits,  and  other 
plant  foods  that  have  certain  phytochemicals  in  them.  Some  of  these  phytochemicals 
are  Beta  carotene  and  other  carotenoids  in  yellow,  red,  green  vegetables  and  fruits, 
flavonoids  in  green  tea,  isothiocyanates  in  cruciferous  vegetables  (cabbage,  broccoli, 
kale, mustard greens, turnip greens, and cauliflower). 

 [49]
 
Picture source
1
 
 
2. Anthocyanins:  Anthocyanins  give  grapes,  blueberries,  cranberries,  and  raspberries 
their  dark  colour.  They  have  been  shown  in  the  laboratory  to  have  anti-inflammatory 
and anti- tumour properties. 
3. Flavonoids  or  isoflavones: These  are  found  in  vegetables,  fruits  and  grains  like 
soybeans,   chickpeas   and   may   act   a   little   bit   like   oestrogen.   The   oestrogen-like 
compounds  in  these  plants  are  called  phytoestrogens.  These  help  in  lowering  the  risk 
of osteoporosis, heart disease, breast cancer and symptoms of menopause. 
4. Artificial  Sweeteners:  These  are  synthetic  compounds  that  duplicate  the  taste  of 
sugar,  but  contain  less  energy,  and,  therefore,  are  often  added  to  diet  foods  and 
beverages.  The  reason  is  to  maintain  the  desired  taste,  but  reduce  the  caloric  value. 
Because  artificial  sweeteners  are  considered  additives,  they  are  often  regulated. 
Therefore, their identifications and concentrations must be determined. 
5. Preservatives:  These  are  compounds  that have  the  ability  to  inhibit  microbial  growth 
and are often added to food and beverage products to prolong shelf life. Preservatives 
are  considered  additives,  and  are  typically  regulated.  Therefore,  their  identifications 
and concentrations must be determined. 
6. Spices: A  spice  is  a  dried  seed,  fruit,  root,  bark  or  vegetable  substance  primarily  used 
for  flavouring,  colouring  or  preserving  food.  Sometimes  a  spice  is  used  to  hide  other 
flavours. Spices are distinguished from herbs, which are parts of leafy green plants also 
used  for  flavouring  or  as  garnish.  A  spice  may  have  other  uses,  including  medicinal, 
religious  ritual,  cosmetics  or  perfume  production,  or  as  a  vegetable.  For  example, 
turmeric roots are also consumed as a vegetable and garlic as an antibiotic. 

 [50]
7. Coffee: Coffee  is  a  brewed  beverage  prepared  from  the  roasted  or  baked  seeds  of 
several  species  of Coffea.  The  two  most  common  sources  of  coffee  beans  are Coffea 
arabica,  and Coffea  canephora. Once  ripe,  coffee  berries  are  picked,  processed  and 
dried  to  yield  the  seeds  inside.  The  seeds  are  then  roasted  to  varying  degrees, 
depending  on  the  desired  flavour,  before  being  ground  and  brewed  to  create  coffee. 
Coffee  can  have  a  stimulating  effect  on  humans  because  of  its  caffeine  content.  It  is 
one  of  the  most  popular  drinks  in  the  world.  It  can  be  prepared  and  presented  in  a 
variety of ways. 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1.    Anthocyanins give colour to 
 (a) roots 
 (b)     coffee 
 (c) wheat 
 (d)     grapes 
Q2.    Oxalates are presents in 
 (a) green leafy vegetables 
 (b) bajara 
 (c) nuts 
 (d)     spices 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define Non-Nutritive components of food. 
2. Explain the beneficial factors of Non-Nutritive foods. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Explain Non-Nutritive components of Diet 
 
2.3.1  Healthy Weight 
There are numerous advantages of maintaining healthy weight. Overweight or obese people 
can gain these health benefits by losing some weight. For most obese or overweight people, 
health  benefits  can  come  with  losing  the  first  5-10%  of  weight.  Conditions  such  as  Type  2 
diabetes are less likely to develop if an obese person loses even 10% of their weight. With a 
healthy  body  weight  there  is  less  likelihood  of  having  heart  disease,  stroke,  or  obesity-
related  cancers  all  of  which  can  be  life-threatening  and  the  chances  of  living  a  long  and 
healthier life increase. 

 [51]
Do you Know? 
Body  Mass  Index  (BMI) is  used  to  broadly  categorize  a  person  as  underweight,  normal 
weight,  overweight,  or  obese  based  on  tissue  mass  (muscle,  fat,  and  bone)  and  height. 
Overweight  or Obesity can  lead  to  a  variety  of  health  conditions,  such  as  type  2  diabetes, 
high  blood  pressure,  and  cardiovascular  problems.  On  the  other  hand, a  weight  that  is too 
low can increase the risk of malnutrition, osteoporosis, and anaemia. 
Waist-to-Hip  Ratio  (WHR)  – or  the  ratio  between  the  circumference  of  the  waist  and  the 
circumference  of  the  hip  indicates  risk  of  obesity.  Greater  circumference  of  trunk  is  an 
indicator of high risk of hypertension and type 2 diabetes. 
Girth   Circumferences or   circumferences   of   different   segments   of   the   body   help   to 
document body size and to estimate the percentage of body  fat. Skinfolds determine body 
fat  quite  accurately.  The  skinfold  technique  can  only  be  performed  by  a  trained  technician 
using skinfold callipers. 
Bioelectrical   Impedance   Analysis is   a   commonly   used   method   for   estimating   body 
composition,  in  particular  body  fat  and  muscle  mass.  A weak electric  current  flows  through 
the  body  and  the  voltage  is  measured  in  order  to  calculate  impedance  (resistance)  of  the 
body. It is done using a portable machine, is easy to administer and gives reliable results of 
body composition. 
Hydrostatic Weighing or Underwater weighing is known as the gold standard method to 
measure mass per unit volume of a living person’s body. 
 
There  are  various  ways  of  assessing  healthy  body  weight  that  include  weight  for  height 
charts, Body Mass Index (BMI) or assessment of body fat percentage. 
Body Mass Index (BMI) Quetelet's Index is a key  index for  relating weight to height. BMI is 
derived by taking a person's weight in kilograms  (kg) divided by his or her height  in meters 
squared.  Now-a-days,  BMI  is  used  to  define  normal  weight,  overweight,  and  obesity  rather 
than the traditional height/weight charts. 
BMI  of  30  or  more  for  either  sex  indicates  Obesity.  BMI  however,  does  not  measure  how 
much  fat  mass  or  muscle  mass  is  there.  A  very  muscular  person  might  get  a  high  BMI 
without  health  risks.  It  is,  therefore,  less  accurate  in  people  such  as  body  builders  and 
pregnant women. 
BMI Classification 
< 18.5 Underweight 
18.5–24.9 Normal weight 
25.0–29.9 Overweight 

 [52]
30.0–34.9 Grade I obesity 
35.0–39.9 Grade II obesity 
≥ 40.0 Grade III obesity 
 
Intra-abdominal  or  visceral  fat  has  a  particularly  strong  correlation  with  cardiovascular 
disease.  Women  with  abdominal  obesity  have  a  cardiovascular  risk  similar  to  that  of  men. 
This can be evaluated by measuring waist circumference or by calculating waist to hip ratio. 
A waist circumference of >102 cm (>40 inches) in men and >88 cm (>35 inches) in women or 
the  waist–hip  ratio  (the  circumference  of  the  waist  divided  by  that  of  the  hips  of  >1.0  for 
men and >0.85 for women) are used to define central obesity. In those with a BMI under 35, 
intra- abdominal body fat is related to negative health outcomes independent of total body 
fat. 
Body  fat  percentage  is  total  body  fat  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  total  body  weight  that 
can be assessed by methods like skinfold measurements, bioelectrical impedance, dual X-ray 
absorptiometry  (DEXA)  etc.  but  to  measure  body  fat  percentage,  special  equipment  and 
technical expertise is needed. There  is no generally accepted definition  of obesity based on 
total body fat. Most researchers have used >25% in men, and >32% in women, as cut-points 
to define obesity and higher health risks. 
2.3.2  Eating for Weight Control 
Eating right is important to stay at a healthy weight. Maintaining body weight is a balancing 
act,  meaning  that  the  amount  of  energy  we  consume should  be  expended.  If  we  eat  more 
calories  than  we  burn,  we  gain  weight.  And  if  we  eat  fewer  calories  than  we  burn,  we  lose 
weight. The balance between the calories intake and calories used or expended is essential 
to  keep  the  weight  maintained.  The  best  way  to  have  energy  balance  is  to  make  better 
choices, thus, choosing foods that are lower in fat and have fewer calories and increasing 
physical activity are the best ways to reduce body weight. 
We can lose  weight  by  making  smart  choices  every  day,  we  can develop  new  eating  habits 
and  preferences  that  will  leave  us  feeling  satisfied  and  winning  the  battle  of  weight  loss. 
Slow  and  steady  wins  the  race. Aim  to  lose  one  to  two  kilos  a  week  to  ensure  healthy 
weight  loss.  Losing  weight  too  fast  can  take  a  toll  on  our  mind  and  body,  making  us  feel 
sluggish, drained, and sick. Caloric restriction for weight reduction is essential to get results. 
Dietary  modification  must  be  accompanied   by  moderate  amounts  of  exercise  to  get 
effective  results  in  weight  loss  or  weight  maintenance.  Aerobic  exercise  increases  the  daily 
energy  expenditure  and  is  particularly  useful  for  long-term  weight  maintenance.  Exercise 

 [53]
will also preserve lean body mass and partially prevent the decrease in basal metabolic rate 
which comes when caloric intake is restricted. 
Additionally,   most   of   the   benefits   of   exercise   come   from   improvements   in   body 
composition, overall fitness and metabolic health, not just weight loss. Risk of cardiovascular 
diseases, diabetes and other obesity related health problems also lower. Stress also reduces 
hence, stress related intake of food is also curtailed. 
The  person  should  be  put  in  negative  energy  balance  to  upto  500-1000  kcal  to  get  ideal 
reduction in weight of 500g - 1 kg / week. To lose weight, we have to eat fewer calories than 
what we expend. But that doesn’t necessarily mean we have to eat less food. We can fill up 
our stomach while on a diet, as long as we choose foods wisely. 
Modifications in the diet to be made 
1. The  diet  should  consist  foods  from  all  food  groups  including,  milk  and  milk  products, 
meat and meat products, cereals, pulses, fruits and vegetables. 
2. High-fibre  foods  are  higher  in  volume  and  take  longer  to  digest,  which  makes  them 
filling. High-fibre foods include: 
 Fruits and vegetables – Eat whole fruits, salads, and green leafy vegetables of all 
kinds.  Soups  and  salads  can  be  liberally  eaten.  The  high  water  and  fibre  content 
in  most  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  makes  them hard  to  overeat.  Eat  vegetables 
raw or steamed, not fried or breaded. 
 Beans – Select beans of any kind. Add them to soups, salads, and meals. 
 Whole  grains  –High-fibre  cereals,  oatmeal,  brown  rice,  whole-wheat  pasta, 
whole-wheat or multigrain bread. 
3. Add nuts to the daily diet but only in moderation. 
4. Switch to fat-free or low-fat milk and milk products. Use low-fat milk in place of cream 
thereby reducing the overall caloric intake of the day. 
5. Baking or grilling foods rather than frying them reduces the calorie count of foods 
6. Limit intake of high sugar foods like jams, jellies, sweetened curd etc. 
7. Cut  on  high  cholesterol  and  saturated  fat  foods  like mixtures, mathris, namkeens and 
bakery products. Instead, choose high fibre biscuits, or khakhra type snacks. 
8. Eat low-fat proteins like egg whites, fish, lean meats, nuts, and poultry. 
9. Serve  smaller  portions.  One  easy  way  to  control  portion  size  is  by  using  small  plates, 
bowls, and cups. This will make portions appear larger. Don’t eat out of large bowls or 
directly  from  the  food  container  or  package,  which  makes  it  difficult  to  assess  how 

 [54]
much  has  been  eaten.  Using  smaller  utensils,  like  a  teaspoon  instead  of  tablespoon, 
can slow eating and help feel full sooner. 
10.    Cooking  meals  at  home  allows  controlling  both  portion  size  and  what  goes  in  to  the 
food.  Restaurant  and  packaged  foods  generally  contain  a  lot  more  sodium,  sugar,  fat 
and calories than food cooked at home—plus the portion sizes tend to be larger. 
11.    Avoid  consuming  high  salt  foods  like  pickles, papad etc.  as  these  foods  induce  water 
retention. 
12.    Be especially careful to avoid high-calorie snacks and convenience foods. 
13.    Soft  drinks  (including  soda,  energy  drinks,  and  coffee  drinks)  are  a  huge  source  of 
calories  in  many  people’s  diets.  One  can  of  soft  drink  contains  between  10-12 
teaspoons of sugar and around 150 calories, so a few soft drinks can quickly add up to 
a  good  portion  of  your  daily  calorie  intake.  Instead  homemade  lemon  water,  coconut 
water, lassi or chachh are  better  replacements  of  commercially  available  juices  and 
soft drinks. 
14.    Reduce daily calorie intake by replacing soda, alcohol, or coffee with water. Thirst can 
also  be  confused  with  hunger,  so  by  drinking  water,  one  can  avoid  consuming  extra 
calories. 
15.    Eating  frequently  throughout  the  day  (3  small  meals  and  2-3  snacks)  will  stimulate 
metabolism.  Skipping  meals  (including  breakfast)  can  decrease  metabolism.  Skipping 
meals usually turns into eating more at the end of the day. 
Reducing portion sizes, changing ways of cooking, right food selection would go long way in 
helping weight management. 
2.3.3  The Pitfalls of Dieting  
Maintaining  a  calorie  deficit  always  leads  to  weight  loss.  Without  exercise,  a  calorie  deficit 
must be created through a lower calorie intake. The main problem with dieting alone is the 
sacrifice needed to sustain a very low-calorie intake for a long period of time is too much for 
most  people  to  handle.  On  a  very  low-calorie  diet,  most  people  would  breakdown  and  go 
back to their old habits causing any weight loss to return quickly. 
The body’s reaction to dieting is also different with a sudden and drastic reduction in calorie 
intake  as  starvation  and  body  adjusts  its  metabolism  accordingly.  Eating  very  little  calories 
for  a  long  time  would  turn  body  into  starvation  mode  means  slowing  down  metabolic 
processes  which  is  the  body’s  way  of  protecting  itself  against  long  periods  with  little  or  no 
food.  This  starvation  mode  causes  body  to  drastically  cut  its  energy  requirements  and  the 
person would stop losing weight. 

 [55]
Do you Know? 
Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder characterized by an abnormally low body weight, an 
intense  fear  of  gaining  weight  and  a  distorted  perception  of  weight.  People  with  anorexia 
place a high value on controlling their weight and shape, using extreme efforts that tend to 
significantly interfere with their lives. 
To  prevent  weight  gain  or  to  continue  losing  weight,  people  with  anorexia  usually  severely 
restrict  the  amount  of  food  they  eat.  They  may  control  calorie  intake  by  vomiting  after 
eating  or  by  misusing  laxatives,  diet  aids,  diuretics  or  enemas.  They  may  also  try  to  lose 
weight  by  exercising  excessively.  No  matter  how much  weight  is  lost,  the  person  continues 
to fear weight gain. 
 
Diets,  especially  fad  diets  or  “quick-fix”  pills  and  plans,  often  lead  to  failure  because  diets 
that cut out entire groups of food, such as carbohydrates or fat, are simply impractical and 
unhealthy.  The  key  is  moderation.  Diets  that  severely  cut  calories,  restrict  certain  foods,  or 
rely  on  ready-made  meals  might  work  in  the  short  term  but  don’t  include  a  plan  for 
maintaining our weight, so the weight quickly comes back. Severely restricted diet also lead 
to  deficiency  of  various  other  nutrients.  Once  we  start  eating  normally,  we’ll  gain  weight 
until  our  metabolism  bounces  back.  Special  shakes,  meals,  and  programmes  are  not  only 
expensive,  but  they  aren’t  practical  for  long-term  weight  loss.  Hence,  instead  of  dieting 
alone  and  looking  for  miraculous  foods  to  reduce  or  maintain  weight,  regular  exercise  and 
good eating habits are crucial to health and well-being. 
2.3.4  Food Intolerance 
Food   intolerance   is   the   non-IgE   mediated   food   hypersensitivity   or   non-allergic   food 
hypersensitivity,   which   is   characterized   by   difficulty   in   digesting   certain   foods.   Food 
intolerance  is  different  from  food  allergy.  Food  allergies  trigger  the  immune  system,  while 
food  intolerance  does  not.  The  symptoms  of  food  intolerance  generally  take  longer  to 
emerge,  compared  to  food  allergies.  In  food  intolerance,  some  people  suffer  digestive 
problems after eating certain foods. Foods most commonly associated with food intolerance 
include dairy products, grains that contain gluten, and foods that cause intestinal gas build-
up, such as beans and cabbage. Gluten in wheat is one of the most common causes of food 
intolerance.  Some  people  are  intolerant  to  several  groups  of  foods,  making  it  harder  to 
determine whether it might be a chronic illness or food intolerance. Identifying which foods 
are the reasons can take a long time. 
The  symptoms  to  food  intolerance  are  varied  and  can  include  stomach-ache,  bloating, 
nausea,   irritable   bowel,   hives,   migraine,   mild   fever,   cough   etc.   Some   types   of   food 
intolerance are given below: 

 [56]
Absence of an enzyme: Enzymes are needed to digest foods fully. If some of these enzymes 
are  missing,  or  are  insufficient for  digesting  a  particular  foodstuff,  proper  digestion  may  be 
affected.  Some  food  intolerance  is  caused  by  the  lack  of  a  particular  enzyme  like  lactose 
intolerance  which  is  caused  due  to  deficiency  of  lactase  enzyme  in  the  body.  Hence,  the 
person is unable to digest lactose from milk and gets intolerant to milk and all milk products. 
People who are lactose intolerant do not have enough lactase, an enzyme that breaks down 
milk  sugar  (lactose)  into  smaller  molecules  and  absorb  through  the  intestine.  If  lactose 
remains  in  the  digestive  tract,  it  can  cause  stomach-ache,  spasms,  bloating,  gas  and 
diarrhoea. 
Chemical  causes  of  food  intolerance: Certain  chemicals  in  foods  and  drinks  can  cause 
intolerance,  including  amines  in  some  cheeses,  and  caffeine  in  coffee,  tea,  and  chocolates. 
Some people are more susceptible to these chemicals than others. 
Toxins due to Food poisoning: Some foods have naturally-occurring chemicals that can have 
a toxic effect on humans, causing diarrhoea, nausea, and vomiting. Peanuts or undercooked 
beans have aflatoxins that can cause extremely unpleasant digestive problems. 
Salicylates:  Salicylates  are  derivatives  of  salicylic  acid,  which  occurs  naturally  in  plants  as  a 
defence  mechanism  against  harmful  bacteria,  fungi,  insects,  and  diseases.  Salicylates  are 
present in most plant-sourced foods, including the majority of fruits and vegetables, spices, 
herbs,  tea,  and  flavour  additives.  Mint-flavouring,  tomato  sauce,  berries,  and  citrus  fruits 
have  particularly  high  levels.  Salicylate  intolerance,  also  known  as  salicylate  sensitivity, 
occurs  when  somebody  reacts  to  normal  amounts  of  ingested  salicylate.  These  chemicals 
are found  in many foods and most people can consume salicylate-containing foods without 
any  adverse  effects.  However,  some  people  suffer  symptoms  after  eating  large  amounts. 
Salicylate intolerant individuals should avoid foods that contain high levels. Processed foods 
with flavour additives are usually high in salicylates as well. 
Gluten intolerance: Gluten is a protein found primarily in wheat, barley and rye. If a person 
has  a gluten  intolerance,  this  protein  can  cause digestive  problems  such  as gas,  abdominal 
pain or diarrhoea. Gluten intolerance is sometimes confused with Celiac disease, or thought 
of as a food allergy. Anyone who suspects they may have a gluten intolerance should see a 
doctor before giving up gluten, as cereals can be an important source of various nutrients. 
Food  additives  and  intolerance:  Additives  are  used  to  enhance  flavours,  make  foods  look 
more  appealing,  and  to  increase  their  shelf  life.  Food  additive  intolerance  has  been  a 
steadily-  growing  problem  over  the  last  many  years  because  more  and  more  foods  contain 
additives.  Nitrates  are  known  to  cause  itching  and  skin  rashes.  Processed  meats  are 
generally  high  in  nitrates  and  nitrites.  MSG  (monosodium  glutamate)  is  used  as  a  flavour 
enhancer  known  to  cause  headaches.  Some  colourings  –  especially  carmine  (red)  and 
annatto (yellow) also cause food intolerance. 

 [57]
It is very difficult to determine whether somebody has a food intolerance or allergy because 
the signs and symptoms often overlap. Patients are advised to keep a diary and write down 
which foods are eaten, what the symptoms were like, and when they appeared. The data in 
the  diary  can  help  a  dietician  or  doctor  identify  which  foods  are  causing  adverse  reactions, 
and  what  steps  to  take.  Apart  from  lactose  intolerance  and  celiac  disease,  there  is  no 
accurate, reliable, and validated test to identify food intolerance. The best diagnostic tool is 
an  exclusion  diet,  also  known  as  an  elimination  or  diagnostic  diet.  Exclusion  diets  are 
extremely  useful  in  isolating  the  causative  foods.  In  a  typical  exclusion  diet,  the  suspected 
food is removed from the diet for a period of 2 weeks to 2 months. If during this period the 
adverse   reactions   do   not   appear,   it   becomes   more   likely   that   the   cause   has   been 
recognized. The best current treatment for food  intolerance is to either avoid certain foods 
or eat them less often and in smaller amounts. 
2.3.5  Food Myths 
The  fewer  the  carbohydrates,  healthier  you  are-  Choosing  the  healthiest  carbohydrates, 
especially  whole  grains,  is  important  for  health  and  well-being.  Refined  carbohydrates 
should  be  avoided  however,  choosing  whole  grains  is  associated  with  a  decreased  risk  of 
chronic diseases and premature mortality. 
Oils/Margarine  have  fewer  calories  than Ghee/butter- Ghee/Butter  and  Oils/Margarine 
have about the same amount of calories. Margarine, which is made from vegetable oils, was 
seen as a healthier alternative to butter (which contains cholesterol and saturated fat),  but 
later it was found that some margarines are actually unhealthier because they contain trans-
fats, which have even more adverse effects on cholesterol and heart health. 
Apples and brinjals are rich in iron because they turn brown when cut- One of the greatest 
myths  about  apples  and  brinjals  is  that  they  are  good  sources  of  iron.  These  an  excellent 
source of fibre but not iron. This change in colour is an enzymatic reaction and has nothing 
to do with iron. 
Case Study 
One  of  the  exciting  aspects  of  the  field  of  sports  nutrition  is  individualizing  eating  plans  for 
athletes.  Each  athlete  is  different—there  is  not  a  “one-size-fits-all”  type  of  meal  plan, 
training   diet,   or   competition   hydration   schedule.   Certainly   the   basic   sports   nutrition 
concepts  and  guidelines  can  be  applied  universally;  however,  each  athlete  will  require  a 
unique  approach  by  tweaking  those  guidelines  to  fit  individual  needs.  For  example,  all 
athletes  should  consume  a  combination  of  carbohydrates  and  protein  after  exercise  to 
initiate  the  repair  and  rebuilding  process.  However,  one  athlete  may  enjoy daal,  roti green 
vegetables and a banana, whereas another athlete may crave an omelet, toast, and orange 
juice.  Both  of  these  meals  meet  the  carbohydrate–protein  combination  requirement  but 

 [58]
also  take  into  consideration  personal  taste  preferences.  This  individualized  approach  is 
much  more  challenging.  Sports  nutrition  professionals  with  this  philosophy  will  succeed 
because  of  the  recognition  that  their  plans  are  based  on  solid  research  and  current 
guidelines  while  also  being  practical,  easy  to  implement,  and  specific  to  an  athlete’s  sport 
and lifestyle.  
Several factors must be considered when calculating nutrient needs and developing a meal 
plan  for  an  athlete,  including  the  individual’s  health  history,  the  bioenergetics  of  the 
athlete’s  sport,  total  weekly  training  and  competition  time,  living  arrangements,  access  to 
food, and travel schedules. 
Q. What do you think the writer means by “one-size-fits-all” type of meal plan? 
Q. What are the essential nutrients needed by an athlete? 
Q. What are the factors to be considered while devising a meal plan for an individual?  
Q. Develop an individualized  nutrition  plan  for a sprinter, who  is a vegetarian, keeping in 
mind  the  factors  mentioned  above.  You  must  mention  why  you  made  the  dietary 
choices. 
 
Art Integration 
Start an awareness campaign in your school regarding importance of nutrition in our life. 
You could include the following activities: 
 Poster making Competition on the benefits of Healthy Eating and Healthy Lifestyle 
 Talk Show by inviting a Dietician. 
 Making and screening a video film on dietary imbalances. 
 Cooking competition for cooking healthy. 
 If possible, develop a school vegetable garden to increase awareness about various 
vegetables. 
 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1.    What is an ideal weight to be reduced in one week? 
 (a) 250 gms to 500 gms 
 (b) 500 gms to 1 kg 
 (c) 1 kg to 1.5 kg 
 (d)     kg to 2 kgs 
Q2.    BMI between 25.0–29.9 is   
 (a) under weight 

 [59]
 (b) normal 
 (c) overweight 
 (d)     obese 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. List the points to be considered for weight maintenance. 
2. Point out the pit falls of dieting 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. What is food Intolerance? Enlist the foods which are commonly associated with food 
intolerance. 
2. How you can modify your diet for weight control? 
3. Enumerate any five food myths and the related facts.  
 
References: 
1
 Jockers, D. D. (2016, 4 16). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://thetruthaboutcancer.com/anthocyanins-protects-cancer/ 
 
Suggested Reading : 
 B
ean, A. (1999). Food For Fitness. London : A & C Block. 
 Khelo India National Fitness Program for Schools. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
Khelo India: 
https://schoolfitness.kheloindia.gov.in/UploadedFiles/SampleData/AdminManual.pdf 
 Park, J., & Park, K. (1986). Preventive and Social Medicines. Jabalpur: Banarsidas Bhanot 
Publishers. 
 Physical Education and Yog (373). (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from National School of 
Open Learning: https://www.nios.ac.in/online-course-material/sr-secondary-
courses/physical-education-and-yog-(373).aspx 
 Plimmar, R. (2006). Food, Health and Vitamins. New Delhi: Sports Publication. 
 Srivastava, V. (2009). Nutrition and Diet for Sportsmen. New Delhi: Bhagwati Publishers. 
 
 
 

 [60]
UNIT-III: YOGA AND LIFESTYLE 
Contents 

  Asanas as preventive measures  
  Obesity: Procedure, Benefits & contraindications for Vajrasana, Hastasana, 
Trikonasana, Ardh Matsyendrasana  
  Diabetes: Procedure, Benefits & contraindications for Bhujangasana, Paschimottasana, 
Pavan Muktasana, Ardh Matsyendrasana  
  Asthema: Procedure, Benefits & contraindications for Sukhasana, Chakrasana, 
Gomukhasana, Parvatasana, Bhujangasana, Paschimottasana, Matsyasana  
  Hypertension: Tadasana, Vajrasana, Pavan Muktasana, Ardha Chakrasana, 
Bhujangasana, Sharasana 
 Back Pain: Procedure, Benefits & Contraindications Tadasana, Ardh Matsyendrasana, 
Vakrasana, Shalabhasana, Bhujangasana 
 
Learning Outcomes  
At the end of the Unit, you will be able to: 
• identify the asanas beneficial for different types of ailments and health problems. 
• recognize  importance  of  various asanas for  preventive  measures  of  obesity,  diabetes, 
asthma, hypertension, back pain. 
• describe the procedure for performing variety of asanas for maximal benefits. 
• distinguish the contraindications associated with performing of different asanas. 
• outline  the  role  of  yogic  management  for  various  health  benefits  and  preventive 
measures. 
Discussion 
Discuss in a Group 
 What  are  the  factors  that  have  led  to  an  increase  in  sedentary  behaviour  in  our 
modern lifestyle? 
 What prompts individuals into developing a particular lifestyle or adopting a particular 
occupational culture? 
 In what way do their different lifestyles and occupations impact their day to day life or 
health? 
 What do you understand by the term lifestyle diseases? 
 List some lifestyle diseases. 

 [61]
 What is the meaning of the term “premature mortality”? How do these diseases lead 
to? 
3.1.1  Yoga Asanas as a Preventive Measure 
Emerging new technologies such as dependence on the internet and virtual communication 
networks,  have  led  to  faulty  eating  habits  and  a  wrong  sleeping  pattern  that  threatens  the 
physical and mental health of individuals. Yoga plays an important role in helping individuals 
adopt a healthier lifestyle for improved physical and mental health, which, in turn, results in 
better  productivity.  Yoga  is  therapeutic  in  modern  lifestyle  disease  like  stress,  diabetes, 
hypertension, backache etc. The power of yoga lies in its simplicity, flexibility, and diversity. 
As  a  result,  Yoga  has  been  the  subject  of  global  popularity  and  research  in  the  past  few 
decades. 
 
Picture source
1
 
Yoga  is  a  very  ancient  system  of  physical,  mental,  and spiritual  practices  or  disciplines  that 
originated  in  India.  According  to  Patanjali, asana means, Sthira  sukham  asanam, or, that 
position  which  is  comfortable  and  steady.  In Bhavanopanishad,  “To  sit  in  a  comfortable 
position  or  posture  for  everlasting  period  is  called Asana”.  There  are  different  types  of 
asanas Meditative Asana, Relaxative Asana and Corrective Asana. 
The  modern  world  is  facing  a  pandemic  of  lifestyle  disorders  that  require  changes  to  be 
made consciously by  individuals themselves, and yogasanas can be preventive measures in 
fending  off  lifestyle  diseases  as  they  provide  physiological  advantages.  Busy  schedule,  long 

 [62]
commutes, load of study, late night work leaves little, or no, time for physical activity. This, 
added  to  the  lifestyle  related  challenges  has  led  to  diseases  such  as  hyperactivity,  obesity, 
hypertension,  and  diabetes.  The  following  are  the  blessings  of asanas for  prevention  of 
diseases: 
1. Strengthening of Bones and Joints: Yoga asanas are performed with postural stability 
and  complete  focus  on  the  movement  of  joints  and  elasticity  of  muscles.  Yoga  is  a 
weight-bearing  exercise,  which  simply  means  you  hold  the  weight  of  your  body  up 
against gravity. This puts mild stress on the bones and keeps them strong. Unlike other 
weight-bearing activities, yoga does not damage cartilage or stress the joints. Instead, 
it helps to strengthen and maintain bone health, relieves stress, improves balance and 
thereby reduces the likelihood of falls. In 2011, Dr Loren Fishman, a famous Physiatrist, 
reported  that  his  patients  showed  increased  bone  density  in  their  spine  and  hips 
through  Yoga.  The  study  concluded  that  practising  yoga  for  just  8-10  minutes  every 
day  would  raise  bone  quality.  Dr  Fishman  conducted  another  study  with  741  elderly 
volunteers over a period of 10 years that concluded in 2015 which proved that yoga is 
safe,  even  for  people  who  have  suffered  significant  bone  loss.  “There  are  a  series  of 
anti-arthritis asanas for  loosening  every  joint  of  the  body,"  says  Agarwala
2
.  The 
Tadasana, Tiryak  Tadasana and Kati  Chakrasana involve  three  different  movements, 
like   upward   stretching,   lateral   stretching   and   twisting   of   the   spine.   Also,   the 
Trikonasana helps  in  developing  body  structure  strength.  Backward-bending asanas, 
such  as Bhujangasana, Sarpasanaand Dhanurasana,  are  excellent  for  relieving  back 
pain  and  strengthening  the  spine. Surya  Namaskar,  which  has  12  positions,  is  a 
complete practice for bone strengthening. 
Do you know? 
Difference between yoga and exercise? 
 When Yogasanas are  performed,  respiration  and  metabolic  rates  slow  down.  As  a 
result, consumption of oxygen and body temperature drop. However, during exercise, 
breathing and metabolism speed up, oxygen consumption rises, and body gets hot. 
 Yoga postures tend to arrest catabolism whereas exercise promotes it. 
 Asanas are designed to have specific effects on the glands and internal organs, and to 
alter electrochemical activity in the nervous system. 
 The asanas are  classified  in  to  three  groups-  beginners,  intermediate,  and  advanced. 
Regular    practice    of    a    balanced    programme,    tailored    to    individual    needs    is 
recommended for maximum benefits. 
 
2. Improving  Blood  Circulation: By  performing  Yoga  regularly,  cardiac  muscle  tissue 
begins working better, increasing cardiac output. Blood circulation improves and blood 

 [63]
stress normalizes and stabilizes. Regulated breathing oxygenates the blood and assists 
fresh  nutrients  to  reach  all  peripheral  vessels  and  capillaries.  Improved  circulation 
means that the brain receives more oxygen, resulting in improved alertness, memory, 
and  mood.  Other  vital  organs  also  receive  a  steady  supply  of  the  nutrients  they  need 
for optimal functioning. Adho Mukha Svanasana (Down dog), Virabhadrasana (warrior 
pose), Utthita   Trikonasana (triangle   pose), Urdhva   Dhanurasana (Full   wheel), 
Ustrasana (camel pose) are asanas to improve blood circulation. 
3. Bolstering  Immunity: Lack  of  sleep,  poor  nutrition,  and  life  stress  all  lead  to  a 
weakened  immune  system  and  vulnerability  to  disease.  Stress,  more  than  anything, 
leads to a breakdown in the body’s ability to defend itself against bacteria and viruses. 
When stressed, the hormone cortisol stays in the blood for extended  periods of time, 
leading  to  increased  inflammation.  According  to Psychology  Today
3
, a  new  research 
published  in the Journal of Behavioural Medicine suggests that yoga can be helpful  in 
boosting  the  immune  system  and  decreasing  inflammation  in  the  body  as  it  lowers 
stress  hormones  and  strengthens  the  nervous  system,  while  also  stimulating  the 
lymphatic  system,  which  removes  toxins  from  the  body.  Yoga  calms  the  mind  and 
contributes  to  deeper,  regulated  sleep,  which  is  crucial  for  wellness. Balasana (Child 
pose), Bhujangasana (cobra  pose), Dhanurasana (Bow  pose)  and Matsyasana (Fish 
pose) are helpful in improving immunity 
4. Improving   efficiency   of   Respiratory   Organs:   Respiration   is   a   two-way   process: 
supplying  oxygen  to  every  cell  in  the  body  and  then  transporting  carbon  dioxide,  the 
waste  product  of  respiration,  out  of  the  body.  Lungs  have  the  important  function  of 
drawing in the oxygen, moving it into the blood stream, extracting the carbon dioxide 
from  the  blood  stream  and  removing  it  from  the  body.  Most  people  are  habitual 
shallow  breathers  and  do  not  use  lungs  to  their  full  potential. Bitilasana (Cow  pose), 
Marjaryasana (cat   pose), Padangusthasana (Big   toe   pose) help   improve   the 
respiratory  system.  The  size  of  lungs  and  chest  is  also  enhanced.  Yogic asanas and 
pranayama have been shown to lower the resting respiratory rate. 
 Complete  breathing  gives  us  more  energy.  The  deeper  our  breath  the  more 
oxygen reaches our cells. At the cellular level oxygen is used for energy release. 
 Complete  breathing  helps  us  to  think  more  clearly  by  supplying  more oxygen  to 
the brain. 
 It assists our immune system and helps to lower our heart rate. 
 Complete  breathing  also  relaxes  us,  giving  us  a good  night’s  sleep  and  is  a  great 
way to cope with stress. 
5. Complementing  Performance  of  Excretory  System: As  you  know,  food  is  digested  in 
the digestive tract and nutrients are absorbed in the blood and waste is thrown out of 
the body. If the excretory system is not functioning properly the waste from the body 
is  not  thrown  out  completely  and  gets  accumulated,  leading  to  problems  in  the 

 [64]
digestive  system,  urinary  system  and  excretory  system. Pawanmuktasan and  other 
loosening  movements  help  in  releasing  toxins  from  the  joints.  All  forward  bend, 
backward  bend,  and  twisting asanas create  pressure  and  stretch  in  the  abdominal 
cavity.  This  improves  the  blood  supply  to  the  organs  in  the  abdominal  cavity  like 
stomach,  intestine,  liver,  gall  bladder,  kidneys  and  pancreas.  As  a  result,  the  waste 
products  including  lactic  acid,  acid  phosphate,  urea,  uric  acid  etc.  are  excreted.  This 
helps in reducing fatigue. Recommended asanas include Pawanmuktasan, Dronasana, 
Bhujangasana, Shalabhasana, Dhanurasana, UttanaVakrasana and Trikonasana. 
Mudras    like Ashwamudra, Ashwinimudra, Yogamudra, Viparitakarni    mudra, 
Sulabhatadagi mudra have positive effect on this system. 
6. Strengthening  Muscular  Tissues: The  Musculo-Skeletal  system  consists  of  bones, 
skeletal  muscles,  joints,  tendons,  ligaments,  nerves  and  cartilage.  It  provides  a  frame 
to support the body and to enable  it to move. Muscles, tendons and ligaments act on 
the  bones  to  give  the  body  its  shape  and  posture.  Yoga asanas can  help  redress 
problems  associated  with  poor  body  posture  and  the  effects  of  structural  decay, 
because  they  strengthen  weak  muscles  and  stretch  tight  ones.  For  example,  an 
individual who spends long hours sitting or at a computer can develop shortness of the 
hip   flexors   and   an   imbalance   of   the   hip   musculature.   Regular   Yoga   practice 
strengthens  and  increases  muscle  tissue.  Fat  does  not  accumulate  in  the  body.  Yoga 
asanas and pranayama can  help  by  combating  and  helping  to  reverse  this  gradual 
decay of the body’s structure. By taking corrective action, the person’s pain, illness or 
disease can at least be addressed, or in other cases, even ameliorated. 
 
I. Tick the correct option 
1. Yogasutra was compiled by 
 (a) Patanjali 
 (b)     Gheranda 
 (c) Shivananda 
 (d)     Svatmarma 
2. According to Patanjali, the definition of Asana is 
 (a) control of sense organs 
 (b)     sitting in a cross-legged position 
 (c) sitting in a comfortable position 
 (d)     control of diet and water intake. 
3. How many types of Asanas are there in Yoga? 
 (a) 3 

 [65]
 (b)     4 
 (c) 5 
 (d)     12 
4. Which Asana is good for the performance of the Excretory System? 
 (a) Sukhasana 
 (b) Tadasana 
 
 (c) Pawanmuktasana 
 (d) Virabhadrasana 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. How is yoga helpful in improving lifestyle? 
2. How do Asanas help bones and joint to grow stronger? 
III. Answer the following question in 150—200 words 
1. Discuss Asanas as a preventive measure for disease. 
 
Extension Activity 
Take  a  round  balloon  and  stretch  it  out.  Take  a  deep  breath  and  then  exhale  into  the 
balloon. Pinch the end of the balloon and measure its diameter in cm. 
 
How did you feel after five attempts? 
 
Picture source
4
 
Measuring  breath  inhaling  and  exhaling  capacity  to  understand  the  functioning  capacity  of 
your lungs by using a Balloon 
  

 [66]
3.2.1  Obesity 
Obesity  is  not  a  single  disorder  but  a  heterogeneous  group  of  conditions  with  multiple 
causes each of which is ultimately expressed as obese phenotype. Obesity involves complex 
etiological  links  between  the  genetic,  metabolic  and  neural  frameworks  on  the  one  hand, 
and behaviour, food habits, physical activity and socio-cultural factors on the other. Obesity 
is  a  condition  in  which  excess  body  fat  accumulates  to  such  an  extent  that  health  may  be 
affected. It is commonly defined as a Body Mass Index (BMI) of 30kg/m2 or higher. Obesity, 
in absolute terms, is an increase of body adipose tissue (fat tissue) mass. 
Obesity, which was once viewed as the  result of lack of will power, or a  lifestyle "choice" – 
the  choice  to  overeat  and  under  exercise,  is  now  being  considered  more  appropriately  by 
the   modern   world   as   a   chronic   disease,   which   requires   effective   strategies   for   its 
management. There are different methods to measure obesity. 
MEASURING 
OBESITY 
DETAILS 
BODY MASS INDEX BMI  is  a  value  derived  from  the  mass  (weight)  and  height  of  a 
person. The BMI is defined as the  body mass divided by the square 
of  the  body  height,  and  is  universally  expressed  in  units  of  kg/m2, 
resulting from mass in kilograms, height in metres. 
 
Do you know other methods of measuring obesity? 
3.2.2  Asanas to Prevent Obesity 
VAJARASANA 
In  Sanskrit  Vajra  means thunderbolt and  since  the  final  position  of  this  asana  looks  like 
thunderbolt,  it  is  called  Vajrasana.  Vajra  is  also  the  major  Nadi  directly  connected  to  the 
Genito-Urinary  system.  Body  parts  involved  in  performing  Vajarasana  are  feet,  ankles  and 
knees.  Garudasana  (Eagle  pose)  and  Baddha  Konasana  (Butterfly  pose)  are  preparatory 
asanas for Vajarasana. 
 

 [67]
Big Toes touch each other 
Keep the knees together 
Procedure 
1. Sit with legs extended together, hands by the side, palm resting on the ground, fingers 
together and pointing forward. 
2. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right hip. 
3. Similarly fold the left foot and place it under the left hip. Feet should touch the sides of 
hips. 
 
 
4. Now place your hands on the knees, with the palms resting on the knees. 
5. Back  and  head  should  be  straight  but  not  tense,  gaze  in  front  or  close  your  eyes  and 
relax. 
6. Avoid excessive backward arching of the spine. 
7. Breathe  normally  and  fix  the  attention  on  the  flow  of  air  passing  in  and  out  of  the 
nostrils. 
8. While returning to the original position, bend a little towards right side, take out your 
left leg and extend it. 
9. Similarly, stretch out your right leg. 
Suggested Asanas to relax muscles after Vajarasana 
Dandasana and Savasana to release the stress around the back, legs and the hips. 
Advance  pose  - Paryakasana (Couch  Pose), Bhekhasana (Frog  pose  II), Laghuvajarasana 
(Little thunderbolt pose) 
Benefits 
(a) Vajrasana increases flexibility in the ankles. 
(b) Folding  of  knees  and  thighs  stretches  the  quadriceps  muscles  and  improves  blood 
circulation. 
Engage the core muscle 
Shoulders down and rolled back 
Lift the chest 
Chin parallel to the floor 
Crown of the head points towards the sky 
Gaze and focus at one point in front of you. 

 [68]
(c) Elevating  the  spine  from  the  floor,  alters  the  flow  of  blood  in  the  pelvic  region  and 
pelvic muscles are strengthened. 
(d) Vajrasana can be practised even after a meal. In fact, it increases the efficiency of the 
digestive system and aids digestion. 
(e) It increases the blood circulation in the abdominal area. 
(f) This asana helps with people suffering from sciatica and sacral infections. 
(g) It is beneficial for those suffering from stomach ailments such as peptic ulcer or hyper 
acidity. 
(h) It  strengthens  the  pelvic  muscles  which  helps  prevent  hernia  and  aids  women  in 
childbirth. 
Do you know? 
Despite  initial  problems,  many  of  the asanas can  be  performed  with  certain  modifications 
till the body acquires required flexibility and proficiency. 
 
Contraindications 
(a) Person suffering from piles should not practice it. 
(b)     This asana should  not  be  practised  if  one  is  suffering  from  injured  ligaments  at  the 
ankles or at the knees. 
(c) Those  suffering  from  hernia  or  intestinal  ulcers  should  take  medical  advice  and 
guidance  before  practicing  this asana and  should  perform  it  under  supervision  of  a 
trained yoga teacher. 
(d)     Runners should avoid this if they have injury in their hamstrings or the calves. 
(e) This asana is  not  to  be  practised  by  people  who  have  severe  arthritis  and  pain  in  the 
knees. 
HASTASANA (HASTOTTANASANA) 
The  name  comes  from  the  Sanskrit  words Hasta meaning arms, Uttana meaning stretched 
up, and asana meaning posture. 
 
 

 [69]
 
Technique 
1. Stand on the ground with feet together  
2. Inhale and raise arms over the head; interlock the fingers. 
3. While exhaling bend from the waist to the left side. 
4. Hold the posture for a while and, while inhaling, come back to the centre. 
5. Repeat the practice on the right side  
Benefits: 
1. This asana improves curvature of the spine. 
2. It exercises back, neck and spinal joints. 
3. This asana relieves constipation. 
4. It  makes  the  waist  slim,  the  chest  broad  and  removes  fatty  deposits  on  hips.  It  also 
increase height of growing children. 
Contraindications: 
1. Avoid this asana if you are suffering from severe back, neck and shoulder pain.  
2. Patients suffering from pain in the Sciatic nerve should also avoid practising this asana. 
 
 
 
 
 
Arms raised above the head; 
fingers interlocked 
Stand with feet firmly together 
Bend from waist 

 [70]
ARDHA MATSYENDRASANA 
 
 
The name comes from the Sanskrit words Ardha meaning half, Matsya meaning fish, Eendra 
meaning king,  and  asana  meaning posture.  The  final  position  of  this  asana  is  just  like  Half-
Lord of the Fish that is why it is called Ardha- Matsyendrasana. This posture is also known as 
“Half Spinal Twist Pose”. Body parts and organs involved in performing this asana are arms, 
shoulders,  lower  back,  middle  back,  hamstrings,  hips, psoas  muscles,  stomach,  pancreas, 
small  intestine,  large  intestine,  liver,  kidney  and  gall  bladder.  Dhanurasana,  Bhardvajasana 
and  the  hand  down  variation  of  the  Ardhamatsyendrasana  are  the  preparatory  asanas 
which  can  be  practised  before.  In  this  position  there  is  a  strong  twist  on  the  abdomen  and 
spine. The right arm is pressed against the left knee and the left arm is wrapped behind the 
back,  leading  to  an  increased  twist  on  the  body.  The  chest  is  open  and  the  spine  is  erect. 
One  side  of  the  abdomen  is  compressed,  and  the  other  side  is  stretched.  The  right  leg  and 
knee remain on the floor. The left knee should be close to right armpit. 
Procedure 
1. Sit extending both the legs stretched out. Make sure that your feet are placed together 
and your spine is absolutely erect. Place your hands by the side, palms resting on the 
ground, fingers together pointing forward. 
2. Bend the right leg at knee such that the heel of the right foot lies next to the left hip. 
3. Now folding the left leg, bringing it from above the right knee, placing the left foot on 
the ground beside the right knee. The left knee should point upwards. 
4. Now place the right hand on the left side of the left knee. The left knee should remain 
at the left side of the right armpit. 
5. Straighten the right hand and hold the toe or ankle of the left leg. 
6. Twisting the body to the left side, look backwards. Place the left hand bringing it from 
the back on the right thigh. Gaze should be towards the back. 
Reach up through the crown and chest point 
Anchor down through bones in 
the hips 
Sole of foot flat on floor 
Entire torso revolves around spine 
Extend hand and fingers down 
Roll shoulders back and down 
Leverage the twist with a slight 
elbow pressure against the knee 
Turn your gaze over your shoulder 
in the direction of the twist 

 [71]
7. While returning to the original position first release the hand from the thigh and turn 
head forward. 
8. Now bring the back to normal position after loosening the right hand. 
9. Bring the left leg to its original position. 
10.    Bring the right leg also to original position. 
11.    Repeat it similarly from the other side by folding the left leg first. 
Advance Asanas – Full Matsyendrasana 
Benefits 
1. Ardh Matsyendrasana increases lung capacity and improves oxygen supply to the lungs 
2. This asana increases purification of the blood as well as of the internal organs. 
3. It is an asana that is useful for diabetics (b-cells and t -cells), with concentration on the 
pancreas. 
4. This asana regulates the secretion of bile and adrenaline. 
5. It stimulates functioning of the liver and kidneys. 
6. Ardh Matsyendrasana increases the elasticity of the spine, tones the spinal nerves and 
improves  the  functioning  of  the  spinal  cord.  It  also  benefits  the  muscles  of  shoulder 
and back. 
7. It is an asana that is helpful for those suffering from constipation and dyspepsia. 
8. This Asana improves liver efficiency and removes debility of kidney 
Contraindications 
1. This asana should  be  avoided  during  pregnancy  and  menstruation  due  to  the  strong 
twist in the abdomen. 
2. People  who  have  undergone  heart,  abdominal  or  brain  surgeries  should  not  practice 
this asana. 
3. Care should be taken by those with peptic ulcer or hernia while performing this asana. 
4. Those with severe spinal problems should avoid the asana. While those suffering from 
mild slipped disc may benefit from it, but in severe cases it should be avoided. 
 
 
 
 

 [72]
TRIKONASANA 
 
 
The name Trikonasana comes from the Sanskrit words Trikona meaning triangle and Asana 
meaning posture.  This  is  a standing  posture  using  the  legs  to  firmly  ground  the  lower  body 
(creating  a  triangle  with  the  floor)  and  through  the  vertically  extended  arm  stretching  the 
upper  body  (creating  a  triangle  between  the  front  foot  and  grounded  hand). Trikonasana 
stretches  the  muscles  of  the  arms,  trunk  and  legs.  The  primary  muscles stretched in  this 
posture  are  the  front  leg  hamstrings  and  the  abdominal  and  back  muscles.  The  primary 
muscles strengthened in   this   posture   are   the   quadriceps   and   the   gluteal   muscles. 
Virabhadrasana (Warrior  pose  I)  and Virbhadrasana  II (Warrior  pose  II)  are  preparatory 
asanas for Trikonasana. 
Procedure 
1. Stand straight with legs together, hands by the side. 
2. Spread feet to keep two or two and half feet distance between the legs and raise both 
arms parallel to the shoulders. 
3. Slowly  bending  laterally  towards  the  right  side  touch  the  toe  of  the  left  leg  with  the 
forefinger and middle finger of the right hand and raise the left hand towards the sky. 
Fix your gaze towards the left hand. Inhale when you start your pose and exhale when 
you are going down. Once you are in the asana breathe in a very uniform and smooth 
manner. 
4. After maintaining the position for 5 breaths, slowly return to the second position. 
5. Now slowly start bending laterally towards the  left side and touch the toe  of  right leg 
with  left  hand  and  Keep  right  hand  pointing  towards  sky.  Fix  your  gaze  towards  the 
raised hand. 
6. While returning to the  original position  bring down your  raised  hand, and stand erect 
with legs together. 
Keep your neck straight as you 
look up you 
Keep your arm straight 
Look at the raised hand 
Keep leg at an angle of 45° 
Keep your Knee straight 
as you look up 
Keep the hand parallel to the ground 

 [73]
7. Perform three to five rounds of Trikonasana 
Relaxation  pose  - Uttanasana (Standing  Forward  Bend  Pose), Tadasana (Mountain  Pose), 
Dandasana (Staff Pose) 
Benefits 
1. Trikonasana is very important for people who practice activities like walking or cycling 
as it increases flexibility and movement in the hips. It helps in strengthening the pelvis 
and legs, and developing balance in your lower body. 
2. It strengthens the back and abdominal muscles. 
3. It improves the capacity of the heart and improves cardiovascular functioning. 
4. Trikonasana improves backache and arthritis. 
5. This asana helps  burn  fat  and  is  recommended  for  those  suffering  from  over-weight 
and obesity 
Contraindications 
1. Avoid trikonasana if suffering from migraine,  low or high blood pressure,  or  neck and 
back injuries. 
2. A person suffering from diarrhoea shouldn’t perform this asana. 
3. Those who experience dizziness shouldn’t look down at the floor during the final stage. 
4. Those  suffering  from  cervical  spondylosis  should  perform  the asana with  proper 
precautions. 
URDHVA HASTOTTANASANA 
 
The  name Urdhva  Hastotanasana comes  from  the  Sanskrit  words Hasta meaning arms, 
Uttana meaning stretched  up,  and asana meaning posture. This asana is  also  known  as  - 
Palm  Tree  Pose,  Upward  Hand  Stretch  Pose,  Upward  Salute,  Raised  Hands  Pose, Tadasana 
and Urdhva  Baddhanguliyasana. It  is  a standing posture  and  is  considered  a  warm-up  yoga 
Knees in line with ankles 
Neutral Pelvis 
Shoulders in line with hips 
Shoulders away from ears 
Arms engaged 
Wrists in line with shoulders 

 [74]
posture  to  prepare  the  body  for  more  intense  yoga asanas.  Arms,  shoulders,  upper  back, 
neck, psoas muscles are involved in performing UrdhvaHastotanasana 
Procedure 
1. After  relaxing  the  neck  muscles  with  clockwise  and  anti-clockwise  rotation,  relax  the 
arms and neck completely. 
2. Inhaling deeply, raise arms above your shoulders and head, and interlock fingers. 
3. As you exhale, go on to your toes and stretch. 
4. Inhale  again  and  stretch  arms  up.  Stretch  your  legs  while  firmly  rooting  toes  on  the 
ground  and  feel  the  stretch  at  the  shoulders  and  neck.  Remember,  the  deeper  the 
stretch  upwards,  the  deeper  the  posture.  Try  and  balance  the  body  on  the  toes 
bringing the eyes to focus at any one point straight ahead. 
5. Remain stretched upwards for about 8 breaths. 
6. Release  the  posture  by  stretching  the  arms  backwards  and  as  you  exhale  bring  the 
arms down and feet firmly on the floor 
Benefits 
1. The  stretch  of  the  spinal  bone  promotes  proper  growth  and  clears  up  congestion  of 
the spinal nerves at the points at which they emerge from the spinal column. It helps 
to give control over muscular movement and stimulates the entire nervous system of 
the  body. This asana improves  curvature  of  the  spine  and  exercises  back,  neck  and 
spinal joints. 
2. It stretches and tones the abdominal muscles, hence improving digestion. 
3. The   chest   is   expanded,   giving   room   for   clear   passage   for   breathing   from   the 
diaphragm. This in turn relieves asthma and heavy breathing. 
4. It relieves constipation. 
5.   It  makes  the  waist  slim,  the  chest  broad;  removes  fatty  deposits  on  hips  and  also 
increase height of growing children. 
Advance Pose – Garudasana (Eagle Pose), Anuvittasana (Standing Back bending pose) 
Contraindications 
1. Avoid this asana if you are suffering from severe back, neck and shoulder pain. 
2 Patients suffering from sciatica should also avoid practising this asana. 
 
 

 [75]
 
I. Tick the correct option 
1. According to WHO the criteria for overweight as per BMI is 
 (a) 18.5 – 24.9 
 (b)     25 -29.9 
 (c) 30 – 34.9 
 (d)     35-39.9 
2. Which asana improves efficiency of liver? 
 (a) Vajrasana 
 (b) Makrasana 
 (c) Ardhamatsyendrasana 
 (d) Tadasana 
3. Which asana is suggested to relax muscles after performing Vajarasana? 
 (a) Sukhasana 
 (b) Savasana 
 (c) Sarvangasana 
 (d) Virabhadrasana 
II. Answer the following questions Briefly 
1. Write the procedure of practicing Vajarasana? 
2. Explain how Trikonasana is helpful in management of obesity? 
3. What modification can be done to learn Ardhamatsyendrasana 
III. Answer the following question in 150—200 words 
1. Discuss the Yogic methods to manage obesity in detail. 
2. Write down benefits and contraindications of Tadasana. 
3. Explain procedure and benefits of Ardhmatsyendrasana. 
 
Extension Activity 
Stand  in  straight  posture  on  toes,  close  your  eyes,  Stretch  your  arms  straight  above  your 
head.  Maintain  this  position  for  10  seconds.  Now,  open  your  eyes  and  maintain  same 
posture for next ten seconds. 
Were you able to maintain your balance? 
What difference did you feel in both activities? 

 [76]
3.3.1  Diabetes Mellitus 
Diabetes  Mellitus  is  a  metabolic  disorder  where  there  is  a  defect  in  utilization  of  sugar  by 
the body. Carbohydrates from the food that we consume are turned to glucose is the main 
source  of  energy  for  all  bodily  functions.  Blood  level  of  glucose  is  controlled  by  a  hormone 
called Insulin, which is produced by the pancreas. In some people the quantity or quality of 
insulin secreted by the pancreas maybe insufficient or ineffective. Hence there is an altered 
absorption  and  utilisation  of  glucose  from  the  blood.  This  results  in  an  increased  level  of 
blood  sugar.  Another  reason  for  Diabetes  mellitus  is  the  cells  not  using  insulin  properly, 
which is known as Insulin resistance. 
Clinical Symptoms 
 Polyuria: Excessive urination. 
 Polydipsia: Excessive thirst. 
 Dehydration due to excessive urinary output. 
 Polyphagia: Increased appetite. 
 Loss of body weight, decreased resistance 
 
Do you Know? 
 
 
Picture Source
5
 
 
  

 [77]
Problems,  which diabetics encounter more often: 
 Heart Attacks. 
 Rapid deterioration of vision and blindness. 
 Kidney diseases. 
Extension Activity 
Talk to some people suffering from Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Ask them to describe what 
it is like to live with the problem and to demonstrate how they manage it. 
How many of them are aware of Yogic asanas for management of the problem? 
 
Management of Diabetes Mellitus 
Dietary  management:  It  varies  according  to  the  severity  of  the  disease,  activity  and 
metabolic needs. There are certain general principles for all diabetic diets. 
 A diabetes diet is a healthy-eating plan that is naturally rich in nutrients and low in fat 
and calories. Key elements are fruits, vegetables and whole grains. 
 High  fibre  in  diet  helps  in  controlling  Diabetes  by  preventing  excessive  rise  in  blood 
glucose.  It  also  helps  in  decreasing  blood  cholesterol  and  triglycerides  and  assists  in 
reducing weight.
 
Foods Allowed liberally: Green leafy vegetables, some fruits, clear soups, and lemon water. 
Yogic Management 
Kriyas: Kunjal,  Vastradhouti,  Kapalabhati,  Agnisar and Nauli. Suryanamaskara and  selected 
practices of Yogic SukshmaVyayama Asanas 
Asanas: Bhujangasana, Paschimottanasana, Pavanamuktasana, Ardhmateyendrasana. 
Pranayama: Nadishuddi, Surabhedana, BhastrikaandBhramari. 
 
Extension Activity 
Sit on a chair comfortably. Shift towards the front of your chair. Bring the hands behind you 
and hold onto the seat of the chair with your hands. Start inhaling and roll the chest forward 
and  up.  Roll  the  shoulder  back  and  down.  Draw  the  shoulder  toward  one  another.  Look 
toward the sky. 
Discuss your understanding of the body muscle movement during the practice of Asana. 
  

 [78]
3.3.2  Asanas to Prevent Diabetes Mellitus 
BHUJANGASANA 
 
 
 
 
In Sanskrit the word Bhujanga means Cobra. Since the final position of this asana resembles 
the  ‘Hooded  Snake’  therefore  it  is  called Bhujangasana.   Body  parts  used  in Bhujangasana 
are lower back, middle back, upper back, biceps and triceps, core (abs), psoas muscles. This 
asana is  done  in  prone  position.  Preparatory  postures  for Bhujangasana are  stretches  like 
Standing Spinal Twists, Standing Side Bend Pose, Standing Backbend, Standing Side Stretch, 
Standing Pelvic Circle and Standing Forward Fold to open up the arms and lower back. 
Procedure 
1. Take prone position, legs together, toes together pointing outward, hands by the side 
of the body, fingers together, palm facing upward and forehead resting on the ground. 
2. Fold  hands  at  the  elbows,  place  palms  on  the  ground,  on  each  side  of  the  shoulder, 
thumb  should  be  under  the  armpit.  Bring  chin  forward  and  place  it  on  the  ground. 
Gaze in front. 
3. Inhale and raise your body upwards while placing both palms near the upper abdomen 
on the floor. Exhale once you have expanded the upper body. 
4. Raise chin and extend head backward as far as possible. Raise the upper body – thorax 
–  turning  spine  backward.  Caution,  raise  body  only  up  to  the  navel;  do  not  raise  the 
navel. Remain  in  this  position,  breathing  deeply.  Gradually  move  into  slow  breathing. 
To  stay  in  this  yoga asana for  a  longer  time  ensure  the  weight  of  the  body  is  spread 
evenly  around  the  shoulders,  lower  abdomen,  thighs,  back  and  elbows.  If  all  the 
weight is on the lower abdomen, then breathing becomes difficult thus causing you to 
lose balance. 
5. Then  slowly  lower  your  body  to  the  ground,  starting  from  upper  part  of  the  navel 
region, thorax, shoulders, and chin and lastly place the forehead on the ground. Place 
the arms close to your sides and relax. 
Thighs and Hips 
grounded 
Top of feet pressing 
down on the ground 
Shoulder rolling down 
Elbows bent 
Shoulder width apart; 
Fingers spread wide 
Chest expanding 
Forward and Up 

 [79]
6.   Bring  the  body  to  a  relaxed  stage  in Makarasana and  breathe  slowly,  focussing  the 
mind  on  the  movement  of  the  spine.  With  every  exhalation  contract  the  spine  and 
release the stress around it. 
Relaxation   Posture   - Utthita   Balasana (Wide   Child's   Pose), Vajarasana,   Savasana, 
Matsyasana. 
Advance asana - Salabasana, Dhanurasana, Ustrasanacan. 
Benefits 
1. The  nerves  along  the  spinal  column,  back  and  neck  are  toned,  blood  circulation  is 
improved and the spine is supple and healthy. 
2. The  lower  abdominal  muscles  are  also  toned  and  strengthened.  The  pressure  on  the 
abdomen aids digestion, stimulates appetite, relieves flatulence and constipation. 
3. This asana helps burn excess fat deposits around the hips, neck, chest, arms, etc. 
4. It relieves migraine. 
5. This yoga asana is beneficial if suffering from a sluggish liver. 
6. Stretching  the  neck  while  doing  this asana improves  the  functioning  of  the  thyroid 
gland. 
7.   It  is  also  said  that  this  yoga asana tones  the  kidneys  which  helps  in  purification  of 
blood, removing any stagnant blood and improving the health of the whole body. 
8. Bhujangasana tones  the  ovaries  and  the  uterus  and  helps  to  remove  any  disorders  in 
connection to the uterus. Thus, it is also helpful during menstruation. 
Contradictions 
The few don'ts or contraindications for Bhujangasana are: 
1. Those with severe back problems relating to the spine should avoid this yoga posture. 
2. Someone  having  neck  problems  relating  to  spondylitis  too  should  clearly  avoid  this 
yoga posture. 
3. Those  suffering  from  stomach  disorders  like  ulcers  should  ensure  proper  guidance  or 
avoid this yoga posture if discomfort is seen or felt. 
4. Pregnant  women  should  avoid  this  yoga  posture  as  a  lot  of  pressure  is  placed  on  the 
lower abdomen and can also cause injury. 
5. Someone  suffering  from  severe  asthma  should  avoid  this  posture  and  work  on 
breathing techniques through pranayama before attempting Bhujangasana. 
  

 [80]
PASCHIMOTTASANA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The word Paschimottasana comes from the Sanskrit words Paschima meaning west or back 
or back  of  body and Uttana meaning intense  stretch or straight or extended and asana 
meaning posture. In this posture one has to sit and intensely stretch the back forward. Few 
preparatory  postures  are  advised  before  practicing Paschimotasana like  ankle  rotation  in 
sitting    position, Balasana (child    pose)    and Janusirsasana (Head    to    Toe    pose). 
Paschimottanasana (Seated Forward Bend Pose) is considered as one of the best asanas for 
the overall healing of the entire body right from the head to the tip of toes. Procedure 
1. Sit, stretching both the  legs together in front,  hands by the side,  palms resting on the 
ground.  Fingers  should  remain  together  pointing  forward.  Take  few  deep  breaths 
raising the spine up. 
2. Inhaling deeply, stretch your arms above your head and, exhaling slowly, bend forward 
keeping the back straight. 
3. Loosen your back muscles and bend the body forward as far as it is possible. 
4. Maintaining   this   position,   loosen   your   hands   and   place   them   where   they   are 
comfortable. It would be better if they are put on the thighs. 
5. After  exhaling  completely,  reach  out  for  your  toes  and  relax  the  neck  placing  it 
between your legs. 
6. Practice  it  daily  and  keep  bending forward  little  more.  Finally  hold  the  big  toes  of  the 
legs with forefingers of respective hands and place forehead on the knees. 
7. After  few  seconds  raise  the  head,  release  the  big  toes  and  come  to  the  original 
position. 
AdhoMukhaVirasana,  Uttana  Shishosana and Dandasana are  other  postures  which  are 
advised to relax the muscles after practicing Paschimotasana. 
Touch the elbows 
to the floor 
Bend forward 
Hold your toes with you index and middle finger 
Head touching the knees 
Keep your hips grounded on the mat 
Don’t bend your knees 

 [81]
Marchiyasana can be done after getting mastery on Paschimotasana. 
Breathing pattern - Consciously focussing on breathing while doing this asana plays a good 
role in improving the digestive system and upper respiratory system. 
Benefits 
1. This  yoga  posture  stretches  the  muscles  around  the  spine,  lower  back  and  the  calf 
muscles, thus improving blood circulation. 
2. As the body moves forward, pressure is put on the digestive organs and pelvic organs 
thus healing them from within and toning them. Digestion improves and much blocked 
gas in and around the lower abdomen gets released. 
3. Respiration  is  improved  by  doing  this asana as  pressure  is  put  on  the  thorax  and 
abdomen. 
4. Paschimotasana improves the alignment of the vertebral column. 
5. This asana is therapeutic for diabetics, or patients with weak liver and kidney. 
6. Paschimotasana benefits women during menstrual disorders. 
Contraindications 
Since Paschimottanasana puts  a  lot  of  pressure  on  the  lower  back  when  the  body  is  bent 
forward, it should be avoided by those suffering from 
1. slipped disc 
2. hernia 
3. spondylitis 
4. enlarged liver and/or spleen 
5. Pregnant women should avoid this asana 
 
PAWANMUKTASANA 
 
 
 
Hands holding knees 
Knees close to chest pressing abd 
Chin to knee 

 [82]
The name Pawanmuktasana comes from the Sanskrit pawan or wind and mukta or release 
or relieve. If food is not digested well in the stomach, it can cause accumulation of gas which 
can  bring  about  a  lot  of  other  ailments  in  our  body  like  acidity,  migraine  and  joint  pains  to 
name a few. As its name suggests, this asana helps in releasing the accumulated wind in the 
stomach and intestines. 
Procedure 
1. Lie  on  your  back  with  your  feet  together  and  arms  besides  your  body  and  relax, 
breathing deeply. 
2. With a deep inhalation raise your legs to 90° and completely exhale. 
3. Now with another inhalation bring both the knees close to your chest and press on the 
lower abdomen, holding the knees with your hands. Exhale completely. 
4. Remain with the bent knees for a few breaths. With every exhalation press the thighs 
and knees on the abdomen and hold them with your hands. 
5. With  a  deep  breath  raise  your  head,  neck  and  chest  and  bring  them  close  to  your 
knees. If possible, bring your chin in between your knees. Ensure the head moves less 
and  the  knees  come  closer  to  the  face.  That  way  the  pressure  on  the  abdominal 
muscles will help in releasing the unwanted gas/wind around the abdominal organs. 
6. Remain  in  this  posture  for  a  few  breaths  focusing  on  maintaining  the  position  of  the 
head and neck in place. With every exhalation press the thighs closer and deeper into 
the chest and face deeper into the knees. 
7. Try to maintain the balance while breathing slowly and keeping the body relaxed. 
8. Now  with  an  inhalation,  release  the  neck  and  head  and  exhale  completely.  With 
another  inhalation  straighten  the  legs  and  bring  them  back  to  90°  and  as  you  exhale 
release  the  leg  from  90°  to  the  relaxed  posture.  With  complete  exhalation,  bring  the 
legs stretched out on the floor and relax the neck. 
9. Take a few breaths, and then continue with the next round. The longer you hold in this 
posture the faster the muscles around the abdomen with loosen. 
For   relaxation   after   practicing Pawanmuktasana,   practice Supta   Baddha   Konasana 
(Reclining Bound Ankle Pose), 
Matsyasana (Fish Pose), Savasana (Corpse Pose). 
Benefits 
1. This asana tones  the  leg,  arms  and  shoulder  muscles,  strengthens  thigh  muscles  and 
back,  firms  abdominal  muscles  and  improves  the  blood  circulation.  It  helps  cure 
acidity,  digestive  problems,  diabetes,  gastric  problems,  high  blood  pressure,  and 
cervical spondylosis. 

 [83]
2. It improves digestion. 
3. This asana helps  in  releasing  the  unwanted  gas/wind  accumulated  at  various  parts 
around the abdomen thus relieving constipation and flatulence. 
4. Joint pains are cured by doing this asana. 
5. Blood  circulation  in  legs  is  improved  by  this asana,  thus  providing  relief  to  someone 
suffering from varicose veins. 
6. Strengthening muscles around the neck and shoulders will help  in easing initial stages 
of spondylitis. 
7. Removes excess fat around the lower abdomen, hips, chest and arms. 
8. Release of gas helps in healing migraine 
Contraindications 
To be avoided or performed under guidance by those suffering from 
1. severe migraine 
2. High or Low Blood Pressure 
3. Asthma 
4. slip disc 
5. advanced stages of spondylitis 
6. Girls/Women  should  avoid  this asana or  take  the  guidance  of  the  teacher  while 
practicing it during menstrual cycle. 
ARDHA MATSYENDRASANA 
See in Obesity management 
 
I. Tick the correct option 
1. Which gland is associated with Diabetes 
 (a) Endocrine glands 
 (b)     Pituitary 
 (c) Pancreas 
 (d)     Hypothalmus 
2. Polyurea is associated with 
 (a) excessive sweat 

 [84]
 (b)     less urination 
 (c) excessive saliva 
 (d)     excessive urination 
3. Bhujangasana is also known as 
 (a) Dog posture 
 (b)     Child posture 
 (c) Cobra posture 
 (d)     Reverse Boat posture 
4. Which asana can be suggested as preparatory asana for Pawanmuktasana 
 (a) Tadasana 
 (b) Bhujangasana 
 (c) Matsyendrasana 
 (c) Naukasana 
II. Answer the following questions 
1. Draw and label the diagram of Pawanmuktasana correctly. 
2. Explain the correct breathing pattern while performing Paschimotasana. 
3. Write in detail the benefits of Pashchimotasana. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Discuss the technique and benefits of Bhujangasana. 
2. Explain Diabetes and its symptoms 
 
3.4.1  Bronchial Asthma 
Asthma  is  a  disease  of  the  respiratory  system  where  the  airways  get  narrowed,  often  in 
response  to  a  “trigger”  such  as  exposure  to  an  allergen,  cold  air,  exercise,  or  emotional 
stress.  This  narrowing  causes  symptoms  such  as  wheezing,  shortness  of  breath,  chest 
tightness, and coughing. Asthma is a chronic (recurring) inflammatory condition in which the 
airways   develop   increased   responsiveness   to  various   stimuli,   and   is   characterized   by 
bronchial     hyper-responsiveness,     inflammation,     increased     mucus     production     and 
intermittent  airway  obstruction.  This  broncho-constriction  is  episodic  in  character  and  is 
reversible  through  use  of  bronchodilators.  The  exact  basis  of  bronchial  hyper  reactivity  is 
not entirely clear. But bronchial inflammation plays an important role. 

 [85]
Extension Activity 
Take a plastic straw and breathe through the straw. 
Then bend the straw in the middle and try to breathe through the straw while it in bent. 
 What happened when you tried to breathe through the bent straw? 
 Was it harder to breathe out than it was to breathe in? 
 How did it make you feel? 
 Do  any  of  your  classmates  have  asthma  or  do  any  of  you  know  someone  who  has 
asthma? 
 Discuss what it is like to have the breathing problem and how it has affected the life of 
the person who has the problem. 
 
Signs and Symptoms of Asthma 
 Asthma  is  characterized  by  episodic  dyspnea  (difficulty  in  breathing),  wheezing  and 
cough. 
 There is difficulty in expiration. 
 Patient may experience tightness of the chest/discomfort in the chest. 
 The attack may last from one to several hours.  
 Severe attack, called “status asthmaticus”, is often not  responsive to usual therapy. It 
is a medical emergency and may affect the heart and circulatory system. 
 Hypercapnia  (increased  level  of  CO2),  acidosis  and  hypoxia  (decreased  O2  level),  may 
occur in Asthma, though these conditions are rare. 
Yogic Management 
The  role  of  yoga  in  the  management  of  Bronchial  Asthma  is  well  documented  now.  Aim  of 
the  treatment  in  Asthma  should  be  to  reduce  broncho-constriction  and  to  tackle  the 
triggering factors. 

 [86]
 
Picture Source
6
 
1. Kriyas: Jalaneti, Sutraneti, Kapalabhati, Kunjal, Vastradhouti 
2. Surya Namaskara 
3. Yogasanas: Gomukhasana,    Chakrasana,    Parvatasna,    Bhujanasana,    Sukhasana, 
Matsyasana, Paschimottanasana 
4. Pranayama: Nadishodhana Pranayama, Suryabedi Pranayama, Bhramari, Bhastrika. 
5. Special Practice: Special Practice: Yoganidra 
3.4.2  Asanas to Prevent Bronchial Asthma 
SUKHASANA 
 
Sukhasana is a relaxing posture which may be practised after a prolonged period of sitting in 
Sit erect with head, neck and 
trunk in straight line 
Legs crossed at shins 

 [87]
Siddhasana or Padmasana. The name is derived from the Sanskrit, sukha, meaning pleasure 
or comfort,  and asana,  meaning posture. Sukhasana is  a  meditative  posture  and  is  done 
with sitting cross-legged in the most basic or simple form unlike other meditative postures. 
This posture  is excellent  for meditation, pranayama and the beginning of a yoga  class or at 
the  end  to  bring  the  mind  and  breath  under  control. Sukhasana is  considered  a  base  or  a 
warm-u
    p yoga posture to prepare the body for more intense yoga postures / yoga flow. 
Procedure 
1. Sit on the mat with legs stretched out in  front and the spine straight. Place the hands 
on  the  thighs  with  elbows  bent.  Take  a  few  breaths,  connecting  the  breath  with  the 
body. 
2. Inhale and fold the legs. Fold the right foot under the left thigh. And fold the left foot 
under the right thigh. 
3. Cross the legs at the mid shins, and not at the ankles. The pubic bone and the crossed 
shins should be in one line. 
4. Keep ankles flexed a little so that the feet are on their outside edges, perpendicular to 
the floor. Exhale once the legs are in this position. 
5. Keep the head, neck and back straight. Draw your abdomen softly inward and upward. 
6. Inhale and place the hands on the knees in any mudra depending on the pranayama at 
practice,  or  if  this  posture  is  only  to  relax  then  place  the  palms  one  over  the  other 
close  to  the  navel.  You  could  place  the  outer  wrists  on  the  closest  knee,  with  the 
thumb  and  the  index  finger  joined  at  the  tips.  Have  the  other  three  fingers  stretched 
out and pointing downwards. 
7. Begin  slow  inhalation  and  with  each  inhalation  loosen  the  body  and  as  you  exhale 
expand  the  spine  and  move  upwards  pushing  the  lower  back  inside  and  upper  back 
upwards.  Sink  the  legs  and  the  knees  deep  into  the  floor  without  pushing  them. 
Repeat this and slowly bring the body and mind awareness to the Pranayama you are 
practicing while in this yoga posture and relax your facial muscles. 
8. Slowly relax the back and stretch the  legs out in front of you and come  in Dandasana 
and relax for a few breaths if required. 
Benefits 
1. Sukhasana yoga posture facilitates meditation and pranayama. 
2. Sukhasana improves  awareness  regarding  the  body’s  posture  and  keeps  the  spine  in 
an ideal position. 
3. If you are mentally stressed or have had a tiring day, this posture will offer peace and 
 mental calm. 

 [88]
4. This  posture  is  the  standard  meditative  posture  and  is  important  to  line  up  the 
energetic channels within the body to help the flow of prana. 
5. This posture gives room for  improving the flexibility of the waist and the lower region 
of the body. 
Contradictions 
1. Individuals  suffering  from  backache  shouldn’t  stay  in  this  position  for  more  than  5 
mins.  
2. Someone with severe arthritis would find  it difficult to sit  on the  floor as there would 
be  too  much  pressure  at  the  knees.  In  such  cases,  this  posture  can  be  avoided  or 
modifications tried. 
3. Sukhasana should  be  avoided  by  individuals  who  have  undergone  knee  replacement 
surgery,  or  are  suffering  from  problems  related  to  the  spine  or  spinal  disc  problems. 
They should take the advice of their doctors before doing this asana. 
4. Someone  who  suffers  from  sciatica  should  avoid Sukhasana as  the  sciatic  nerve  can 
get pinched. 
5. This  posture  is  practised  with  the  eyes  closed  and  for  longer  periods,  hence  those 
suffering from severe migraine or have anxiety issues may find it difficult to remain in 
this posture with eyes closed. 
CHAKRASANA 
         
 
The  name Chakrasana comes  from  the  Sanskrit  words Chakra or wheel,  and asana or 
posture. Chakrasana is  an  advance  level  posture  and  performed  in  supine  position.  This 
Asana is also known as Urdhva Dhanurasana. This unusual pose and movement of the body 
brings  the  energy  of  the  body  at  ease  and  builds  immense  self-confidence.  Body  parts 
involved in this asana are arms, shoulders, chest, lower back, legs, feet and neck. This Asana 
requires  specific  strength  to  divide  the  weight  of  the  body  between  the  feet  and  hands 
equally  and  is  acquired  with  practice. Ustrasana (Camel  pose), Matsyasana (Fish  pose), 
Fingers spread and pressing down 
Press into mat to lift body 
Knees bent 
Gaze between hands 
Hips lifted 
Chest lifted 
Feet apart 

 [89]
Paryankasana (couch  pose)  and Setu  Bandhasana (bridge  pose)  are  preparatory  poses  for 
Chakarasana. 
Procedure 
1. Lie  down  on  your  back  with  feet  stretched  and  arms  besides  you.  Bring  the  body  in 
rhythm  with  the  breath  and  relax.  Take  a  few  breaths  and  focus  on  the  lower  back 
ensuring  the  entire  spine  is  close  to  the  floor.  Follow  deep  inhalation  and  slow 
exhalation. 
2. With  another  deep  inhalation  bend  the  knees  and  place  the  feet  close  to  your  hip. 
Exhale completely and continue to breathe deeply. Placing the palms inside out at the 
shoulder  level  with  fingers  pointing  towards  the  shoulders  and  wrists  outside.  With  a 
deep  yet  slow  inhalation,  push  the  palms  and  feet  downwards  towards  the  floor  and 
raise the lower body upwards and then the middle and upper body upwards aiming for 
the sky or roof. 
3. Exhale completely in this posture. Here the body will be at ease balancing on the feet 
and  the  palms  which  are  firm  and  rooted  on  the  floor  while  the  rest  of  the  body 
remains in the air. Bring the neck between the shoulders and let it fall gracefully. Bring 
the breath under control and ensure the body is kept light. 
4. The  knees  and  elbows  are  to  be  kept  straight  and  strong.  Ensure  not  to  bring  the 
ankles and the wrists at a position which may cause pull in the ligaments. The comfort 
of the legs and the arms gives the support for the back as it is raised up. 
5.   In this posture the lower back may begin to cause discomfort initially. Focus your mind 
on  deep  breathing  and  loosen  the  body.  Then  with  exhalation  rise  higher  by  rooting 
the feet and the palms firmly on the floor. 
6.   With  continuous  breathing,  work  on  the  alignment  of  the  body  and  its  comfort.  Try 
and bring the pelvic area deeper upwards, making it close to being parallel to the floor. 
7.   While releasing the posture,  inhale and while you exhale loosen the upper back, neck 
and shoulders and bring first the head towards the floor and then the shoulders. Rest 
the  shoulders  and  then  the  upper  back,  middle  back  and  lower  back  in  sequence  and 
then release the arms and place them close to you. Bring the entire body down to the 
floor  and  remain  with  the  knees  bent  ensuring  the  lower  back  is  close  to  the  floor. 
Control the breathing as it could be fast and erratic. The slow inhalation will bring this 
under control. 
8.   After  relaxing  in  this  position,  stretch  the  legs  and  arms  out  completely  in Savasana 
and  relax  the  body  before  taking  the  body  into  the  pose  the  second  time.  The  more 
one practices this pose the more the body moves freely in Chakrasana. 
 

 [90]
Relaxing asanas Supta  Baddha  Konasana (Reclining  Bound  Angle  Pose), ArdhaHalasana 
(Half  Plough  Pose) Viprit-  Karani (Legs  Up  the  Wall  Pose), Savasana (Corpse  Pose)  are  the 
asanas advised to relax the muscle after performing chakarasana. 
Advance  posture  - Eka  Pada  UrdhvaDhanurasana (One  Legged  Wheel  Pose), DwiPada 
Viparita   Dandasana (Two   legged   Inverted   Staff   Pose)   are   advance   level   postures   of 
chakarasana. 
Benefits 
1. The  entire  body  gets  stretched  with  this asana, specially  the  muscles  of  shoulders, 
arms, wrists, legs, chest, entire spine and the muscles around the neck, facial muscles, 
abdominal muscles and thighs. 
2. As  the  abdominal  muscles  are  stretched,  the  abdominal  organs  like  the  kidneys,  liver 
and  pancreas  are  toned.  The  chest  is  stretched  giving  scope  for  the  heart  to  function 
well and get the blood circulation going. The lungs too are stretched. The Thyroid and 
Pituitary glands are stimulated as the neck and head get the fresh flow of blood in this 
pose.  The  reproductive  organs  are  strengthened,  improving  the  balancing  of  the 
hormones. 
3. The digestive system improves and indigestion is cured as a result of this asana. 
4. Chronic headaches and shoulder pains caused by unhealthy lifestyle are cured. 
5. Irritation in the calf muscles with uneasy cramps during menstrual times is healed. 
6. Chakrasana helps in relieving asthma, back pain, migraine, stress and anxiety. 
Contraindications 
Chakrasana should not be practised by those who are suffering from 
1. a back injury as any form of jerk to the back may not be advisable. 
2. Heart problems 
3. either High Blood Pressure or Low Blood Pressure 
4. Glaucoma or Pressure in Eyes, or has undergone a cataract surgery 
5. cervical injury 
6. hernia 
  

 [91]
 
MATSYASANA 
 
 
 
The Sanskrit word Matsya means fish and asana, meaning posture. According to the ancient 
Yogic texts, Matsyasana can restore spinal strength and overall body balance, consequently 
leading  to  a  better  physical  and  emotional  outlook. Matsyasana stimulates  your  spine, 
cervical muscles, thorax, rib cage, and the lungs, thus relieving your fatigue almost instantly. 
Matsyasana is also known as Fish Pose and Balancing Lotus Pose. Lower back, middle back, 
core  (Abs),  chest  and  neck  are  the  body  parts  involved  in  this asana. Setu  Bandhasana 
(Bridge pose), Pawanmuktasana could be performed as preparatory asanas for matsyasana. 
Procedure 
1. Begin Matsyasana by lying down in Savasana (Corpse Pose). Stretch arms and legs out, 
relax the body and take a few deep breaths. 
2. Place your palms under your hips in a way that the palms are facing the ground. Now, 
bring the elbows closer to each other, placing them close to your waist. 
3. Cross your legs so that your feet cross each other at your middle, and your thighs and 
knees are placed flat on the floor. 
4. Breathe in and lift your chest up in a way that your head is also lifted, and your crown 
touches the floor. 
5. Make  sure  the  weight  of  your  body  is  on  your  elbows  and  not  on  your  head.  As  your 
chest is lifted, lightly pressurize your shoulder blades. 
6. Hold the position only until you are comfortable. Breathe normally. 
7. To release from Matsyasana gently raise the head up, lowering the chest and head to 
the floor and bring the hands back along the sides of the body. 
8. Ensure  the  head  is  at  complete  rest  and  the  lower  spine  is  close  to  the  floor.  Relax  in 
Savasana and  take  few  breaths.  When  ready,  go  back  into  the  pose  again  and  hold  it 
for longer time and take the pose deeper with every exhalation. 
9. Savasana is considered a relaxing pose after practicing Matsyasana. 
Crown on floor 
Cross legs 
Look up 
Chest up 

 [92]
Benefits 
1. Matsyasana opens and stretches the neck muscles and shoulders. 
2. Helps in opening the chest and corrects round shoulders too. 
3. This posture provides relief from respiratory disorders by encouraging deep breathing. 
Hence, Matsyasana increases lung capacity to a great extent. 
4. This  posture,  with  the  spine  curved  and  bent  backwards,  provides  a  great  way  of 
strengthening the back muscles with the formation of the arch. 
5. There  is  an  increased  supply  of  blood  to  the  cervical  and  thoracic  regions  of  the  back 
that helps tone the parathyroid, pituitary and pineal glands. 
6. The practice of Matsyasana brings down the tensions and the stiffness at the neck and 
the shoulders. It also helps in curing the initial stages of spondylitis with the guidance 
of an experienced yoga teacher. 
7. The   repeated   practice   of Matsyasana improves   the   flexibility   of   the   neck.   This 
flexibility  in  the  neck  helps  in  the  practice  of  various  other  yoga  poses  that  are  of 
advance level. 
8. This posture helps to regulate emotions and stress. 
Contraindications 
Matsyasana should not be practised by someone suffering from 
1. high or low blood pressure 
2. neck injuries or injury to any part of the lower or middle back. 
3. migraine. 
4. spondylitis 
5. heart ailments 
6. Women who are pregnant should not attempt this yoga pose. 
7. If  at  the  time  of  practice  of Matsyasana,  one  feels  any  kind  of  tightness  around  the 
lower neck and upper back, one should immediately stop doing the asana and relax in 
Savasana. 
  

 [93]
GOMUKHASANA 
 
 
The  name Gomukhasana comes  from  the  Sanskrit  words Go,  meaning Cow and Mukha, 
meaning Face or Mouth. The word Go also means light, so Gomukh may refer to the light in 
or  of  the  head,  or lightness  of  the  head.  This  yoga asana gets  its  name  because the  thighs 
and calves of the person performing it resemble a cow’s face, wide at one end and tapering 
towards  the  other.  This asana is  a  seated  one  and  is  considered  as  an  Intermediate  Level 
Posture,  requiring  a  good  degree  of  flexibility. Different  body  parts  involved  in  performing 
this asana are arms and shoulder, middle  back, upper back,  biceps and triceps,  hamstrings, 
hips, knees, pelvis and quadriceps. Baddha Konasana (Bound angle pose) and Dhanurasana 
are the suggested preparatory asanas before practicing this asana. 
Procedure 
1. Sit on the floor legs extended and spine straight. 
2. Place the palms on the floor and  bring the left  leg bent at the knee and place the  left 
foot  below  the  right  hip  by  raising  the  body  a  bit.  Sit  on  the  left  foot  taking  the  ankle 
and the toes deep inside. 
3. Raise  the  right  leg  bent  at  the  knee  and  place  the  right  thigh  over  the  left  thigh  by 
bringing the right foot close to the left hip on the floor. Make sure both knees are one 
above the other or if possible interlocked deeper trying to balance the body well. 
4. Bring  your  left  arm  and  stretch  it  above  your  shoulder  and  head.  Bending  it,  take  the 
left palm and place it on your back, close to the shoulder blade. 
5. Now raise the right arm and from below take it behind you  bending at the elbow and 
with the right palm try to reach for the left palm. Once comfortable, clasp the left palm 
and maintain the position feeling the stretch at the shoulders and the elbows. 
6. Gradually,  pull  the  palms  closer  and  bring  the  chest  out  raising  the  upper  body 
upwards.  Ensure  the  neck  does  not  bend  forward,  but  remains  in  line  with  the 
shoulders and chest. 
7. Feel  the  stretch  at  the  thighs,  knees,  chest,  abdomen,  shoulders,  arms,  neck  and  the 
elbows. 
 
Knees one above the other 
Feet equidistant from 
hip on either side 
Hand clasped behind back 

 [94]
8. Maintain this position for a few breaths and slowly release. Relax by stretching the legs 
out in front of you and bring the arms down beside you. 
9. After taking a few breaths in the relaxed pose, bring the right leg bent at the knee and 
place the right foot close to the left hip and cross the left thigh over the right thigh and 
bring the left foot close to the right hip on the floor. 
10.    Raise the right arm and bring the right palm from up and behind your head and place it 
close to the shoulder blade behind you. 
11.    Stretch  the  left  arm  and  take  it  from  down  and  place  the  left  palm  close  to  the 
shoulder  blade  behind  you  and  try  to  clasp  the  right  palm.  Interlock  the  fingers  and 
pull the chest out and the shoulder blades closer expanding the spine upwards. 
12.    Remain in this posture for a few breaths, then release the arms and stretch the leg out 
in front of you and relax. 
13.    Relax the body completely and go back into the asana again. 
 
Relaxation asana – Paschimotasana 
Advance asanas – Gomukhasana with Garudasana (cow   pose   face   with   eagle   arm), 
Bharadvajasan. 
Benefits 
1. The  stretch  at  the  hamstrings  helps  in  gaining  flexibility  and  this  can  be  beneficial  to 
athletes in the long run with repeated practice. 
2. Gomukhasana enables greater flexibility of the hip joint. 
3. It stretches and tones the muscles of the chest. 
4. This asana increases  blood  supply  to  the  legs  and  arms,  making  it  a  useful  posture  to 
counteract long periods of sitting in a chair or being hunched over a desk. 
5. The  flexion  of  the  knee  joint  can  be  useful  to  heal  certain  kinds  of  weakness  in  the 
knees (provided there is no ligament tear). 
6. The shoulders and the chest expand, thus making the upper spine strong and erect. 
7. The  raising  of  the  entire  body  upwards  to  get  the  arms  or  fingers  interlocked  behind 
works   with   the   expansion   of   the   lower   abdominal   muscles   thus   improving   the 
functioning of the abdominal organs and digestion. 
8. Stretching  the  abdominal  area  also  burns  the  unnecessary  fat  at  the  tummy  area  and 
tones the entire torso. 
9. Breathing  through  the  diaphragm  improves  the  blood  circulation  at  the  chest  and 

 [95]
helps  fight  allergies.  10.Biceps  and  triceps  muscles  are  strengthened  and  there’s 
increased  flexibility  of  the  shoulder  and  the  upper  arms.  11.The  entire  spine  is 
stretched, bringing in a good flow of prana to the entire body. 
Contraindications 
Gomukhasana should not be practised by those suffering from 
1. shoulder pain, back ache, hip or knee pain or stiffness in the shoulders. They may have 
to take it slow and easy. 
2. any kind of hip problems or injury at the knee, hamstrings, and quadriceps. 
3. sciatica. 
4. any kind of neck and shoulder injury. 
6. This asana must be avoided when pregnant. 
PARVATASANA 
 
Parvatasanaor the Mountain pose is part of the Surya Namaskar series of asanas. It appears 
as  the  4th  pose  and  the  9th  pose  in  the Surya  Namaskara.  In  Sanskrit Parvata means 
mountain.   The asana looks   like   a   mountain   from   the   sides   and   hence   the   name 
Parvatasana.  Arms,  shoulders,  chest  and  knees  are  the  body  parts  involve  in  this asana. 
Balasana, and Tadasana are preparatory asanas before doing this asana. 
Procedure 
The correct steps to do both sitting and standing pose are: 
1. Sit  straight  on  yoga  mat  in  the  lotus  position  with  both  hands  resting  on  knees  palms 
down. 
2. Raise your hands to the front and clasp together with palms outwards. 
3. Lift your hands over your head straight with palms facing up. 
4. Stretch and hold the position for few seconds. Repeat multiple times. 

 [96]
5. Stand straight on your yoga mat with legs together and hands to the sides. 
6. Lift your hands up and bring them down. As you do this, bend from the waist. 
7. Reach to the floor at an angle. 
8. Let your legs be straight and firm on the floor. Make sure you do not bend knees. 
9. Keep the shape of exactly 45° relative to floor. 
10.    Keep this position for few seconds and release. 
11.    Repeat multiple times. 
Benefits 
1. If done in the morning, Parvatasana keeps you alert. 
2. Parvatasana stretches the spine. The stretch in this pose reduces extra fat in the back 
and waist. 
3. It helps practitioners below 18 years to gain some height. 
4. It   tones   the   abdominal   muscles   and   hence   stimulates   the   inner   organs   in   the 
abdominal region. 
5. It is helpful in ameliorating respiratory disorders including asthma. 
6. It helps to reduce back pain. 
Contraindications 
Parvatasanashould not be attempted by those suffering from 
1. knee pain 
2. dizziness. 
  

 [97]
 
I. Tick the correct option 
1. What causes an Asthma Attack? 
 (a) Allergy 
 (b)     Smoke 
 (c) Exercise 
 (d)     All of the above 
2. Poor exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide in an individual is the result of 
 (a) exercise induced Asthma 
 (b)     allergy induced Asthma 
 (d)     Pulmonary Hypertension 
 (d)     Respiratory Failure 
3. Which asana is base asana for curing Asthma? 
 (a) Sukhasana 
 (b)     Chakrasana 
 (c) Matsyasana 
 (d) Parvatasana 
II. Answer the following questions 
1. Draw and label the diagram of Parvatasana correctly and discuss the technique for the 
asana, 
2. Explain the correct breathing pattern while performing Chakrasana. 
3. Write in detail the benefits of Gomukhanasana. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Discuss the asanas helpful for a person suffering from asthma. 
2. Write down the procedure and contraindications of Matsyasana in detail. 
3. Explain Asthma and its symptoms 
 
  

 [98]
3.5.1  Hypertension 
Hypertension is the elevation of the blood pressure above normal. The levels of Systolic and 
Diastolic  pressure  are  both  risk  factors.  BP  >  140  mmHg.  and  Diastolic  Bp>  90  mmHg  are 
generally accepted as hypertension. 
 
Picture Source
7
 
Classification of hypertension 
1. Primary  Hypertension  is  also  known  as  essential  hypertension.  This  is  the  most 
prevalent form of hypertension and it has no identifiable cause. 
• Benign Hypertension 
• Malignant Hypertension 

 [99]
2. Secondary  Hypertension  is  high  blood  pressure  due  to  some  underlying  disease  or 
even medication. 
• Cardiovascular Hypertension 
• Endocrine Hypertension 
• Renal Hypertension 
• Neurogenic Hypertension 
• Pregnancy-induced Hypertension 
Do you Know? 
Blood  pressure is  the  pressure  your  blood  exerts  against  your  blood  vessel  walls  as  your 
heart  pumps.  Blood  pressure  comes  from  two  physical  forces.  The  heart  creates  one  force 
as  it  pumps  blood  into  the  arteries  and  through  the  circulatory  system.  The  other  force 
comes from the arteries resisting the blood flow. 
Blood  pressure is  measured  in  millimeters  of  mercury  (written  as  mmHg).  For  example, 
normal blood pressure in adults should be less than 120/80 mmHg. 
Systolic  Pressure is  the  higher,  or  top,  number  and  represents  the  pressure  at  the  peak  of 
each heartbeat. 
Diastolic  Pressure is  the  lower,  or  bottom  number  and  represents  the  pressure  when  the 
heart is resting between beats. 
Sphygmomanometer is the instrument used to measure blood pressure. 
 
Manifestations of Hypertension: 
High  blood  pressure  is  itself  asymptomatic,  that  means  there  is  no  indication  or  any  clear 
symptoms. This is the reason why high blood pressure is also referred to as ‘the silent killer’ 
since it could cause damage to the cardiovascular system without the [patient being aware 
of the fact that she/he is suffering from High blood pressure. 
High  blood  pressure  could  also  create  problems  in  certain  organs.  A  prolonged  illness  may 
lead to complications such as arteriosclerosis, where the production of plaques narrows the 
blood vessels. It may lead to 
• Renal Failure 
• Left Ventricular Failure 
• Myocardial Infarction 
• Cerebral Haemorrhage 
 

 [100] 
Yogic Management 
The  role  of  yoga  in  the  management  of  Hypertension  is  well  documented  now.  Aim  of 
treatment  of  Hypertension  should  be  to  lower  the  blood  pressure  and  to  prevent  further 
complications. In general, the practices prescribed for the Hypertension cases are: 
Kriyas: Jalneti, Sutraneti, Surya- 
Namaskara and  selected  practices  of  Yogic SukshmaVyayama (Suryanamaskara may  be 
avoided in severe cases) 
Asanas:V
    ajrasana,     Bhujangasana,     Pavanamuktasana,     Tadasana,     Ardha-Chakrasana, 
Shavasana, 
Pranayama: Nadishuddi, Ujjayi and Bhramari. 
Meditation: Breath Awareness. 
3.5.2  Asanas to Prevent Hypertension 
VAJRASANA 
See in Obesity management  
PAVANAMUKTASANA 
See in Diabetes management  
BHUJANGASANA 
See in Diabetes management 
Extension Activity  
Find out 
 Three factors that may increase blood pressure. 
 Relationship between having high blood pressure and the circulatory system. 
 The reason high blood pressure is called the “silent killer”. 
 Five symptoms of high blood pressure? 
 Three factors that could cause a decrease in blood pressure. 
 
  

 [101] 
TADASANA 
 
Tada means mountain, Sama means upright or straight and Sthiti means standing  still. 
Tadasana therefore  implies  an asana where  one  stands  firm  and  erect  as  a  mountain. 
Tadasana (Mountain Pose) is considered as a basic standing pose or the foundation pose for 
any other yoga pose. Smashthiti, Equal standing  pose and Prayer pose are other names for 
Tadasana.  Mastery  over  this asana with  firmness  of  the  feet,  toes  and  the  shoulders  and 
chest will benefit in the practice of all other yoga poses. Toes, abdomen, arms and neck are 
the body parts involved in performing Tadasana. 
Procedure 
1. Stand  erect  with  feet  together,  heels  and  big  toes  touching  each  other.  Expand  the 
spine  with  chest  out  and  shoulders  straight.  Keep  the  stomach  tucked  in,  chest 
forward, spine stretched up and the neck straight. 
2. Inhale and raise the hands and place the palms on the crown of the head with fingers 
interlocked and exhale completely. 
3. Inhale  again  and  raise  the  interlocked  fingers  above  your  head  with  palms  facing 
upwards  bringing  the  entire  body  on  your  toes,  and  stretch  the  entire  body  upwards 
exhaling completely. 
4. As  you  lift  the  heels,  feel  as  though  you  are  being  drawn  upwards,  and  completely 
stretch your body. 
5. Remain  in  this  posture  looking  in  front  and  gazing  at  any  one  point.  Bring  the  body 
under control by keeping it relaxed through slow breathing. 
Arms raised; fingers interlocked 
Gaze fixed at a point 
Chest lifted 
Stand on toes 

 [102] 
6. Do  not  bear  the  weight  of  the  body  either  on  the  heels  or  the  toes,  but  distribute  it 
evenly. 
7. You could close your eyes and focus on your breath and on keeping your body steady. 
8. Stand in this asana for as long as comfortable. With practice, the stability of the body 
improves along with straightening of the spine with proper breathing. 
9. Inhale  deeply,  and  when  exhaling  slowly  bring  the  heels  down  along  with  the  arms 
stretched backwards and release the asana. 
10.    Relax and repeat this again, taking the asana deeper by holding it longer. 
Advanced asanas – Vrikasana (Tree   pose), Urdhava   Hastasana (Volcano   pose)   and 
Garudasana (Eagle pose) are advanced asanas after master Tadasana 
Benefits 
1. The  legs  become  strong  at  the  ankles  and  the  knees.  With  long  periods  of  practice  in 
this pose, the toning  of the  leg muscles will help  to practice all other standing asanas 
with ease. Muscles, too, are stretched giving room for expansion and strengthening of 
the muscles. 
2. The  hips  are  raised  and  this  brings  a  good  support  to  the  entire  back  ensuring  the 
spine is expanded giving room for proper flow of prana to the entire body. 
3. Toning  of  the  chest  and  the  shoulders  helps  in  improving  bad  posture  and  results  in 
strong upper back. 
4. Focus  should  be  to  keep  the  spine  straight  by  pulling  in  the  tummy.  This  eventually 
helps in toning of the abdominal muscles and lengthens the spine. 
5. This asana helps  to  keep  the  body  light  which  is  essential  for  the  practice  of  most 
other asanas. 
Contraindications 
1. This asana is  not  beneficial  for  anyone  whose  leg  muscles  are  weak  or  someone  who 
finds it difficult to stand for long periods. 
2. Someone  who  is  suffering  severe  migraine  or  giddiness  would  find  this asana a 
challenge. 
3. Avoid putting too much strain on the spine by carrying the entire body weight. This can 
bring more stress to the spine. 
4. Initially don’t work hard on raising the body and remaining still. Only when the body is 
ready then move towards a little stretch. 
 

 [103] 
ARDHA- CHAKRASANA 
 
In  Sanskrit ardha means half, chakra means wheel and asana means posture. Ardha 
Chakrasana is  considered  a  base asana as  a  number  of  variations  can  be  derived  from  this 
asana. Ardha Chakrasana helps boost energy in the body and hence can be included in flow 
yoga  sequences. Ardha  Chakrasana is  considered  a  warm-up  yoga asana to  prepare  the 
body  for  more  intense  yoga asanas.  Arms,  shoulders,  lower  back,  upper  back,  neck  psoas 
muscles  are  involved  in  performing  this asana. Ardha  Chakrasana is  also  known  as  Raised 
arm pose, Hasta Uttanasana, sky reaching pose. 
Procedure 
1. Stand straight and bring your hands together in a clasped position. 
2. Raise and rotate your hands above the shoulders. 
3. Slowly bend the upper part of your body backwards along with the hands, as far as you 
can go. 
4. Remain in this position for few breaths, according to your capacity. 
5. To  release  the asana,  come  back  slowly  to  the  standing  position  with  hands  by  your 
side. 
6. There is a variation of Ardha Chakrasana, where the hands are placed behind the hips 
and then bending the back is attempted 
Benefits 
1. This  is  one  of  the  best  yoga asanas to  treat  and  cure  respiratory  congestion  and 
problems related with lungs viz. asthma, bronchitis, blockage of nasal passage, clearing 
alveoli etc. It also helps to increase lungs capacity thereby ensures good health. 
2. It is beneficial in relieving neck pain if it is performed with care. 
3. This asana is  extremely  beneficial  for  stiff  back  muscles  and  nerves.  It  is  useful  in  de-
stressing and for strengthening, and suppleness of back muscles and nerves. 
Feet apart 
Hands on hips 
Body bent as far back as possible 

 [104] 
4. It can be used to shed extra fat from the abdomen. But for this, one has to perform it 
on regular basis and follow the steps as mentioned above. 
5. This  yoga  pose  ensures  lightness  and  relives  the  practitioners  from  problem  of 
retention of gas. It also enhances the efficiency of abdominal organs. 
6. The   yoga   pose   provides   soothing   massage   to   the   thyroid   gland,   thus   controls 
hyperthyroidism   and   hypothyroidism.   It   also   regulates   metabolism   and   controls 
weight. 
7. It is good for knees, hips and nerves and muscles of the leg. 
8. By  removing  sluggishness,  it  energizes  your  body  thus  enhances  the  efficiency  of 
various systems. 
9. It  is  good  in  controlling  blood  sugar  as  the  yoga  pose  stirs  pancreas  to  secrete 
optimum level of insulin in blood. 
Contraindications 
1. Consult your doctor before practicing Ardha Chakrasana during pregnancy. 
2. Those suffering from serious spine problems should not practice this asana. 
3. Ulcer and hernia patient should not practice this asana. 
4. Those suffering from high blood pressure should avoid this asana. 
 
SAVASANA 
 
 
 
 
In Sanskrit Sava means dead body. The posture is called Savasana as the body in this asana 
resembles  a  dead  body. Verse  32  of  the  first  chapter  of  the Hatha  Yoga  Pradipika states: 
‘Lying upon one’s back on the ground at the full length like a corpse is called Savasana. This 
removes  fatigue  caused  by  the  other  yoga  poses  and  induces  calmness  of  mind’.  The 
objective  of  this asana is  to  imitate  a  corpse  by  keeping  the  body  still.  By  remaining 
Hands away from the body with fingers semi–flexed , palms upwards 
Lie flat on the ground 
Feet apart, toes pointing 
outward 

 [105] 
motionless for some time and keeping the mind still while you are fully conscious, you learn 
to relax. This conscious relaxation invigorates and refreshes both body and mind. 
Procedure 
1. Lie down on the back with the hands comfortably away from the body. Keep the head 
in a comfortable position. 
2. Keep a distance of one to two feet between the feet with toes pointing outward. 
3. Place  both  the  hands  on  the  ground,  10  inches  away  from  the  body  with  fingers  in  a 
semi–flexed position, with palms facing upwards. 
4. Gently  close  the  eyes,  breathe  normally  or  practice  moderately  deep  abdominal 
breathing. 
5. Focus on the flow of the breath without moving the body. 
6. Try to relax the body by diffusing the tension in each part of the body. 
Benefits 
1. It helps reduce stress and removes physical and mental fatigue. 
2. It relaxes all muscles and nerves of the body 
3. It is helpful to overcome psychological disorders. 
4. It  is  very  beneficial  for  managing  high  blood  pressure,  cardiac  diseases  and  anxiety 
disorders. 
Contraindications 
1. A  very  distracted  mind  is  going  to  find  it  difficult  to  relax  and  by  pushing  the  body,  it 
will cause more irritation and bring a headache. 
2. Someone  with  severe  acidity  may  find  lying  on  the  back  very  uncomfortable  as  the 
food pipe may cause irritation. 
3.6.1  Low Back Pain 
Low back pain is the most common cause of job-related disability and a leading contributor 
to missed work. Fortunately, most occurrences of low back pain go away within a few days. 
Others take much  longer to  resolve, or, may even lead to more serious conditions. Chronic 
back pain  is a major cause of social and financial  problems as it is associated with impaired 
q
uality of life, loss of productivity and huge health care expenses. 
Acute short-term low back pain generally lasts from a few days to a few weeks. Most acute 
back  pains  are  mechanical  in  nature –  the  result  of  trauma  to  the  lower  back  or  a  disorder 
such as arthritis. Pain and strain may be caused by a sports injury, work around the house or 

 [106] 
in  the  garden,  or  a  sudden  jerk  such  as  a  car  accident  or  other  stress  on  spinal  bones  and 
tissues. 
Extension Activity 
Find out 
 What structures make up the back? 
 What causes lower back pain? 
 What are the risk factors for developing low back pain? 
 How is low back pain diagnosed? 
 How is back pain treated? 
 How can you prevent a back pain? 
Share your answer in the form of a poster. 
 
Symptoms 
 Symptoms may range from muscle ache to shooting or stabbing pain, limited flexibility 
and/or range of motion or inability to stand straight. 
 Occasionally, pain felt in one part of the body due to disorder or injury, may “radiate” 
elsewhere in the body. 
 Chronic back pain is measured by duration – pain that persists for more than 3 months 
is  considered  chronic.  It  is  often  progressive  and  the  cause  can  be  difficult  to 
determine. 
Yogic Management of Low Back Pain -- Spinal exercise – simple spinal movements facilitate 
the practice of a further range of Yogic techniques by loosening the joints and muscles. 
1. Sukshma Vyayama: Griva-sakti-vikasaka (Strengthening the Neck) 
SkandhatathaBahumula-sakti-vikasaka (Developing   the   strength   of   the   Shoulder- 
Blades   and   Joints), Purnabhuja-saktivikasaka (Developing   the   arms) Kati-   sakti 
(strengthening the Back). 
2. Yogasanas: Tadasana, Ardhamatsyaendrasana, Bhujangasana, Vakrasana, 
Shalabhasana 
3. Pranayama: Nandishodhana Pranayama, Suryabhedan Pranayama, Ujjayi, Bhramari 
4. Special Practices: YogaNidra 
5. Dhyana: Meditation 
 

 [107] 
 
3.6.2  Asanas to Prevent Low Back Pain 
VAKRASANA 
 
 
 
 
Vakra means twist’  in  Sanskrit.  Thus  the  Sanskrit  name  of Vakrasana means  Twisted  Pose 
because  the  spine  is  twisted  in  practicing  this asana. Vakrasana comes  under  the  category 
of  seated asanas.  The  lower  back,  middle  back,  hips,  neck  are  involved  in  practicing 
Vakrasana.   Easy  raise  arm  pose,  side  bend  pose, Janu  sirsasana or  head  to  knee  pose  are 
suggested  as  a  preparatory  pose  for Vakrasana.   This asana works  on  the  entire  spine  if 
focus is on breathing is right. The upper body is twisted to bring the upper spine parallel to 
the sides of the yoga mat. 
Procedure 
1. Seated in Dandasana, take a few breaths and expand the spine upwards. Connect the 
breath with the movement of the spine and relax the entire body. 
2. Bring  the  left  knee  close  to  your  chest  and  take  a  few  breaths,  then  pick  up  the  left 
foot and place it outside of the right knee. 
3. Twist  your  upper  body  towards  the  left  while  the  right  elbow  is  placed  at  the  outside 
of  the  left  knee  and  place  the  hand  on  the  floor  close  to  your  right  knee.  Remember 
the body is twisted to the same side as the knee is bent and, in this case, because the 
left knee is bent, the body is twisted to the left. 
4. Take a deep breath and, with the support of the right elbow, twist the upper  body to 
the left as much as possible and face the wall behind you. 
5. Place the left hand behind you as close as possible to your lower back, this should help 
you raise your spine up and also to balance your body. 
Left foot across right knee 
Right hand on left foot 
Left hand at the back 
Body twisted towards raised knee 
Left knee near chest 
Face towards wall behind 

 [108] 
6. With every exhalation raise the spine and twist as much as possible trying to turn your 
neck and shoulders to bring it parallel to the wall to your left. 
7. Release the pose and take a few breaths and relax in Dandasana. 
8. Continue the stretch with the same position of the left knee, but twist your body now 
to the right by placing both the palms on to the floor on the  right close to your lower 
back and try to look behind you as much as possible. 
9. Repeat the same now with the right knee and start with turning to the right and then 
release. Continue the pose with the upper body twisted to the Left. 
Relaxation  Pose – Hindolasana (Cardlepose), Badhakonasana,  Paschimotasana are  to  relax 
the muscles after practicing Vakrasana 
Advance Pose – Ardhamatsyendrasana and Ek pada Rajakapotasana (pigeon pose) 
Benefits 
1. As the very name suggests, the twist of the spinal cord tones the muscles of the back 
and thus brings stability to the spine. This pose helps a person who is tall, and has the 
habit of not standing or sitting with the spine straight to overcome this habit. 
2. This asana helps  straighten  the  upper  back  and  brings  the  sagging  shoulder  in 
alignment with the spine thus making shoulders look strong. 
3. It strengthens the neck muscles as the twisting of the upper body requires flexibility of 
the neck. 
4. This asana tones  the  internal  organs  like  the  digestive  system,  intestines,  uterus  and 
kidneys.  As  the  body  twists,  some  pressure  is  felt  at  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen, 
thus internally working on the organs. The pressure on the abdominal muscles assists 
in faster toning and tightening of the muscles. 
5.   As  this asana puts  neck  muscles  to  work,  it  activates  thyroid  gland.  This  ensures  a 
balanced hormone level in the body. 
Contraindications 
1. It  may  not  be  a  good  idea  to  practice  this  yoga  pose  if  there  is  a  back  injury.  Also, 
pressure  on sciatic  nerves can  aggravate  injury  as  the  pressure  is  on  the  nerves while 
the body is twisted. 
2. Pregnant  women  should  avoid  this  yoga  pose  as it  will  bring  discomfort  to  the  uterus 
and hence this pose is not good for them. 
3. Turning  of  the  entire  neck  may  make  the  muscles  around  the  neck  sore  for  someone 
suffering from weak neck muscles or upper spine. 
 

 [109] 
SALABHASANA 
 
 
 
The  name  comes  from  the  Sanskrit Salabh which  means grasshopper or locust.   So,  in  this 
pose the body looks like a grasshopper. Salabhasana is entered from a prone position. This 
asana brings  tightness  to  the  back  and  hips  and  stimulates  the  parasympathetic  nerves  in 
the  lower  spinal  region.  Lower  back,  upper  back,  core,  hamstrings,  chest,  neck,  and  pelvis 
are  involved  in  performing  this asana. Paschimottanasana and Bhujangasana can  be  done 
as preparatory asanas before practicing Salabhasana. 
Procedure 
1. Begin with lying down face down on tummy in Makarasana (Crocodile Pose). Relax the 
spine with few breaths and connect the breathing with the movement of the spine. 
2. With feet close to each other and chin on the floor, place your arms close to your body 
to the side, palms facing up. You could place these palms below your upper thighs too 
for giving support. 
3. While  you  take  a  deep  breath,  raise  both  legs  from  the  waist,  keeping  the  legs 
together and knees straight at about 40 degrees from the floor or as per your comfort. 
The  lower  body  is  raised  from  the  pelvic  area  and  balanced  on  the  upper  abdomen, 
chest  and  chin.  Remain  in  this  position  with  slow  breathing  and  try  and  bring  your 
mind to the lower back. 
4. With  every  inhalation  raise  the  legs  higher  by  supporting  the  upper  thighs  with  your 
palms and straighten the legs behind you as much as possible. 
5. The  maximum  benefit  from  this Asana is  derived  by  raising  the  body  higher  off  the 
floor  and  balancing  only  on  the  chest  and  chin  for  greater  flexibility  of  the  back  and 
abdomen. 
6. With slow exhalation, bring the lower body to the floor and relax the chin and begin to 
come back to Makarasana. Here you relax the entire body for a few breaths until you 
are  ready  to  take  the  next  round  of Shalabhasana. Realaxing Asanas – Makarasana, 
Utthanashishosana,  Adhomukhvirasana are  relaxing  pose  suggested  after  practicing 
Salabhasana. 
Arms close by the side 
Legs raised from waist down 
to 40° from the floor 
Lie face down on the mat 

 [110] 
Advance Asanas – Dhanurasana,  Ekpada  Rajakapotasana  (Pigeon  pose), Naukasana (Boat 
pose) are advance level asanas. 
Benefits 
1. The most important benefit is that this posture stimulates the parasympathetic nerves 
in the lower spinal region and improves blood circulation. 
2. Removes the pressure on the sciatic nerve and gives relief from backache and slipped 
disc if the case is not severe. 
3. Removes stiffness around the lower back, legs and neck. 
4. Removes excess fat around the hips thus toning the muscles. 
5. As a lot of pressure is put at the lower abdomen, women with menstrual disorders can 
practice this asana thus helping in proper functioning of the organs. 
6. As  the  pressure  is  on  the  abdominal  area,  digestion  is  improved  and  the  internal 
organs  are  helped  in  doing  their  functions  properly  thus  balancing  the  body  from 
within. 
7. Therapeutic  benefits  like  curing  of  mild  sciatica,  healing  of  mild  slipped  disc  and 
improving constipation also accrue from this asana. 
Contraindications 
1. Someone with acute back pain or slip disc should avoid this asana. 
2. Someone  with  severe  sciatica  can  cause  greater  injury  to  themselves  as  this asana 
tightens the entire body from hips to the feet. 
3. Someone  with  major  problems  with  menstruation  or  with  a  prolapsed  uterus  should 
avoid this asana. 
4. Women in their pregnancy should avoid this posture. 
5. Someone suffering from Blood Pressure problems, thus should avoid this posture. 
TADASANA 
See in Hypertension management  
ARDHAMATSYAENDRASANA and BHUJANGASANA 
See in diabetes Management 
 

 [111] 
  
 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. At what point is Blood pressure considered high 
 (a) 80 over 120 
 (b)     130 over 80 
 (c) 140 over 90 
 (d)     210 over 120 
2. Which asana suggested for low back pain is contraindicated for sciatica? 
 (a) Vakrasana 
 (b) Savasana 
 (c) Ardhchakrasana 
 (d) Salabhasana 
II. Answer the following questions 
1. Draw and label the diagram of Salabhasana correctly 
2. Explain the correct breathing pattern while performing Vakarasana. 
3. Write in detail the benefits of Salabhasana. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Write down the benefits and contraindications of Savasana in detail. 
2. Explain Hypertension and yogic method of dealing with it. 

 [112] 
Art Integration 
Music  and  yoga  are  both  considered  as  parts  of  alternative medicine.  Individually,  the  two 
possess  extraordinary  healing  powers.  It  stands  to  reason  then,  that  combining  music  and 
yoga together can create limitless possibilities of healing, transformation and peace. 
Although  yoga  can  be  practiced  in  silence,  its  effects  can  be  magnified  if  it  is  paired  with 
nice, pleasant music. 
Music improves meditation by calming our volatile thoughts and allowing us to find stillness 
in  the  mind  which  is  the  goal  of  meditation.  It  creates  a  positive  mood.  In  one  way  or 
another, all of us have experienced being instantly lifted out of a bad mood just by listening 
to  a  favorite  song.  Scientifically  speaking,  our  brain's  electrical  signals  are  strengthened  or 
weakened depending on our mood. Therefore, altering our brain's electrical waves through 
music can also influence our state of mind and health in general. 
Music enhances movement. When practicing yogasanas, you may find some asanas difficult 
or  challenging.  Listening  to  music  transforms  yoga  into  a  dance  than  just  mere  posture. 
Transitioning  from  one  pose  to  the  next  feels  really  good  and  effortless  when  it  is 
accompanied by beautiful music. 
Keeping the above points in mind, compose music for a Yoga session. 
 
References: 
1
 (2018, 3 24). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-iyd-
government-to-take-foreign-yoga-professionals-to-kerala-2597209 
2
 Devgan, K. (2016, 04 08). Yoga for bone health. Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Mint: 
https://www.livemint.com/Leisure/XUJlbzgtq9GQ8OyDPczg6O/Yoga-for-bone-health.html 
 
3
 Wei, M. (2018, 2 22). New Research on How Yoga Boosts Your Immune System. Retrieved 
11 25, 2020, from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/urban-survival/201802/new-
research-how-yoga-boosts-your-immune-
system#:~:text=New%20research%20published%20in%20the,system%20and%20increasing
%20chronic%20inflammation. 
4
 (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://www.biologycorner.com/worksheets/lungcapacity.html 
5
 Diabetes. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://www.physio-pedia.com/Diabetes 
6
 Tiwari, S. (2018, 5 7). 4 types of Asthma that you should know. Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://www.thehealthsite.com/news/world-asthma-day-2018-types-of-asthma-that-you-
should-know-w0518-566361/ 
7
 (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://www.who.int/images/default-

 [113] 
source/infographics/ncds/hypertension-infographic-005-page1-01.tmb-
549v.jpg?sfvrsn=43661bc7_1 
 
Suggested Reading 
 Anand, O. (2001). Yog Dawra Kaya Kalp. Kanpur: Sewasth Sahitya Perkashan. 
 Physical Education and Yog (373). (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from National School of 
Open Learning: https://www.nios.ac.in/online-course-material/sr-secondary-
courses/physical-education-and-yog-(373).aspx 
 Rama, S. (2001). Breathing. Rishikesh: Rishikesh Sadhana Mandir Trust. 
 Sarin, N. (2003). Yoga Dawara Ragoon Ka Upchhar. Delhi: Khel Sahitya Kendra. 
 Swami, R. (2000). Yoga & Married Life. Rishikesh : Rishikesh Sadhana Mandir Trust. 
 Swami, V. B. (2000). Yoga, Polity, Economy and Family. Rishikesh : Rishikesh Sadhana 
Mandir Trust. 
 
 

 [114] 
UNIT-IV: PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND SPORTS 
FOR CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS 
Chapter Content 
Concept of Disability & Disorder 
 Types of Disability, its causes & nature (cognitive disability, intellectual disability, 
physical disability) 
 Types of Disorder, its cause & nature (ADHD, SPD, ASD, ODD, OCD) 
 Disability Etiquettes 
 Advantage of Physical Activities for children with special needs 
 Strategies to make Physical Activities assessable for children with special need.  
Learning Outcomes  
In this chapter you will learn to 
 describe the concept of Disability and Disorder. 
 outline types of disability and describe its causes and nature. 
 outline types of disorder and describe its causes and nature. 
 explain various disability etiquettes 
 list advantage of physical activities for children with special needs 
 explain Strategies to make physical activities accessible for children with special needs 
Discussion 
Several  terms  and  phrases  related  to  special  needs  may  create  some  amount  of  confusion, 
perhaps misunderstanding. Look at the already know, want to know and ultimately learn (KWL) 
Chart given below. Complete the first two columns. Fill in the last column after completing your 
research by reading, or watching relevant videos. 
Word What I Know What I Want to Know What I Learned 
Differently abled    
Disability    
Hidden disability    
Temporary disability    
Impairment    
Disorder    
Integration    
Adaptation    
Inclusion    

 [115] 
Case Study 
The   Commonwealth   Games   in   Manchester,   England   in   2002,   marked   an   extremely 
important  change  in  the  way  disabled  competitors  were  treated  in  athletics  tournaments. 
For  the  first  time,  medals  won  by  disabled  competitors  were  counted  towards  their 
countries’  final  totals.  Disabled  competitors  joined  the  procession  of  national  teams,  they 
lived together in the athletes’ village, and their events were staged in the same stadiums at 
peak times alongside star names. 
Read the following transcript of a radio interview with Desmond Green, a former athlete 
on the changes in the Manchester Commonwealth Games. 
Presenter: Do you think these changes are a welcome step forward? 
Desmond  Green: Much,  much  more  than  that.  They  are  a  revolution  in  sport.  After 
yesterday  we  can’t  go  back,  though  for  certain  the  traditionalists  will  complain.  No,  it’s  a 
marvellous turning point. Calling someone a  ‘disabled athlete’ will no longer  be considered 
one of those second best, embarrassing expressions: it will stand for status of a sort that will 
appeal to the public. 
Presenter: Surely,  what  the  public  want  to  see  is  first  past  the  post,  the  world’s  fastest  – 
that  sort  of  thing... Green: Ah,  that’s  precisely  what  traditionalists  will  say!  But  it  isn’t  like 
that.  These  decisions  have  turned  sport  upside  down  because,  from  now  on,  we  shall 
acknowledge  what  individuals  can  do.  Take  Natalie  du  Toit.  Since  losing  her  leg  in  a  road 
accident, she’s trained relentlessly. Now she’s in Manchester representing South Africa as a 
swimmer.  What  an  achievement  against  the  odds!  That’s  the  sort  of  story  readers  want. 
They’re tired of muscles and speed and running the same old races in the same old ways. 
They   want   real   competitors,   people   who   are   doing   their   best   under   very   trying 
circumstances,  just  like  them.  The  traditionalists  can’t  handle  that.  They  fear  change  and 
want athletics competitions to be the same as always. 
Presenter: So you reckon spectators will like this? 
Green: Of  course.  They’ve  seen  it  in  marathon  events.  You  see,  they  want  more  than 
excellence.  To  see  a  magnificent  performance  by  someone  in  a  sporting  wheelchair  is 
moving  and  uplifting.  You  identify  strongly  with  them,  which  is  emotional.  You  could  say 
that  these  changes  give  us  a  new  version  of  an  old  sport,  something  fresh  and  exciting  to 
talk  about.  But  the  real  importance  is  that  it  inspires  the  spectators.  How  many  of  us  who 
are burdened by unhappiness and depression will see the Games and ask ourselves why we 
can’t overcome our difficulties and go and do something positive ourselves? 
Presenter: I suppose you’re also saying that these changes in the ways disabled athletes are 
treated mark a change in our attitudes towards them. 
Green: Absolutely. They’re taking a real part. No  one can patronise them with second-class 
events  that  ‘someone  let  us  have  because  we  are  cripples’,  tagged  on  for  the  sake  of 

 [116] 
political  correctness.  No  patronising,  that’s  the  point.  They’re  there  in  their  own  right.  You 
know,  ‘political  correctness’  is  necessary  because  it  protects  people  –  but  it’s  marvellous 
when you can throw it out of the window and start again. 
Presenter: You feel very strongly about disability, don’t you, Desmond? 
Green: I  do.  There  are  many  forms,  and  you  and  I  could  easily  find  ourselves  classified  in 
some  way.  When  we  talk  about  a  minority,  we  forget  how  many  real  people  there  are  out 
there  and  the  important  part  they  play  in  society.  These  games  will  help  people  to  turn 
disability  into  normality.  I’ve  seen  blind  people  skiing,  and  we  both  know  about  the  work 
done  by  societies  for  horse-riding  for  the  disabled.  We  all  want  to  be  accepted  as  normal, 
and this will help. 
Presenter: Will the Games change disabled people’s attitudes too? 
Green: Anything  that  gives  them  the  confidence  they  deserve  is  important.  They  will  hear 
interviews with athletes and they’ll say, ‘Why can’t we do something like that?’ 
Presenter: I can see why you mistrust traditionalists. 
Green: They  live  in  ivory  towers,  in  the  past.  They  talk  about  the  pursuit  of  excellence  and 
how  athletes  must  be  ruthless.  They  deride  the  participation  of  the  disabled  because  they 
say  that  athletics  is  not  suitable  for  them.  But  no  organisation  can  protect  itself  from 
change.  If  it  does,  it  withers  away.  These  changes  are  important  because  they  show  that 
athletics is alive and that will gain public support and interest. 
Presenter: Some disabled athletes argue that not enough has been done. 
Green: There’s  a  long  way to  go,  but  what  has  been  done  is  radical.  It’ll  take  some  time  to 
digest. Then we can all think what we should add. It’s not beyond us to invent other ways of 
celebrating the excellence of personal achievement. 
Q. Why  is  the  format  of  the  Manchester  Commonwealth  Games  being  referred  to  as 
revolutionary? 
Q. What does the term ‘political correctness’ mean? What is being referred to as political 
correctness? 
Q. Based on your reading  of the transcript, and the  subsequent changes that have taken 
place  in  the  sports  activities  related  to  athletes  with  special  needs,  write  a  paragraph 
in  about  200  words  expressing  your  views  on  the  issue  of  the  equal  participation  of 
able-bodied and disabled athletes. 
4.1.1  Disability 
Disability  is  an  integral  part  of  human  life.  Almost  everyone  of  us  has  faced  some  kind  of 
temporary  or  permanent  impairment  at  some  point  in  life  that  may  have  led  us  to 
experience  difficulties  in  functioning.  In  other  words,  in  addition  to  needs  in  common  with 
other  children,  some  children  may  have  needs  that  are  special  needs.  From  early  times, 

 [117] 
humanity has faced the moral and political issue of how best to include and support people 
with disabilities. 
Thus, the understanding of the concept of Children With Special Needs (CWSN) is essential. 
CWSN are  children who have some difficulties which may in some way impede their ability 
to function adequately in the family, community or school. Because of these difficulties they 
find  it  challenging  to  attain  their  full  potential.  The  difficulties  they  experience  may  be 
physical,  cognitive,  linguistic,  social,  emotional  or  psychological.  They  may,  therefore, 
require special and extra inputs to overcome their challenges. 
The  term  Disability  is  a  very  vast  one  and  encompasses  all  kinds  of  physical  impairments, 
activity  limitations,  and  participation  restrictions.  Around  15%  of  the  global  population  – 
over  a  billion  people  –  lives  with  some  form  of  disability,  of  whom  2–4%  experience 
significant difficulties in functioning. This number is expected to double to 2 billion by 2050. 
Many of these people require assistive technologies such as low-vision devices, wheelchairs 
or hearing aids. 
3rd December is celebrated as World Disability Day. 
4.1.2  Concept of Disability 
Disability  is  understood  as  a  condition  that  produces  a  long-term  impairment  that  affects 
activities of daily living, such as eating, walking, and maintaining personal hygiene. Disability 
may be 

 congenital, or present from birth, 
 occurring during a person’s life time, 
 invisible disability (not noticeable easily) and 
 temporary disability (recovery is possible). 
Do you know 
Barriers include communicational, cultural, economic, environmental, institutional, political, 
social,  attitudinal  or  structural  factors  which  hamper  the  full  and  effective  participation  of 
persons  with  disabilities  in  society.  For  instance,  ‘stereotyping’  might  be  an  attitudinal 
barrier, wherein people assume that the quality  of life of a person with disability is poor or 
that they are unhealthy because of their impairments, and so such a person must live a dull 
life without seeking happiness. Lack of availability of books/ materials in Braille for a visually 
impaired  person  can  be  a  communicational  barrier.  Social  barriers  are  related  to  the 
conditions in which people are born, grow, live, learn, work and age – or social determinants 
of health – that can contribute to decreased functioning among people with disabilities. For 
instance,   persons   with   disabilities   are   more   likely   to   be   unemployed   than   others. 

 [118] 
Institutional  barriers  include  many  laws,  policies,  strategies  or  practices  that  discriminate 
against people with disabilities. This may not be intentional but there are practices which do 
not    accommodate    persons    with    disabilities    denying    them    equal    rights    in    many 
circumstances. 
 
These  conditions,  or  impairments,  may  be  cognitive,  developmental,  intellectual,  mental, 
physical, sensory, or a combination of multiple factors. 
The Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities and  its Optional  Protocol was 
adopted  on  13  December  2006  at  the  United  Nations  Headquarters  in  New  York.  The 
Convention  follows  decades  of  work  by  the  United  Nations  to  change  attitudes  and 
approaches  to  persons  with  disabilities.  The  Convention  is  intended  as  a  human  rights 
instrument with an explicit, social development dimension. It adopts a broad categorization 
of persons with disabilities and reaffirms that all  persons with all  types of disabilities must 
enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms. To give the effect to the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  an  act  names  the Rights  of  Persons 
with  Disabilities  Act  2016 (RPWD  Act  2016)  was  passed  by  Indian  Parliament  on  27th 
December 2016. 
4.1.3  Definition of Disability 
According to the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016
1
 
“Person  with  disability”  refers  to  a  person  with  long  term  physical,  mental,  intellectual  or 
sensory  impairment  which,  in  interaction  with  barriers,  hinders  his  full  and  effective 
participation in society equally with others. 
“Person  with  benchmark  disability”  is  a  person  with  disability  or  affected  by  -  Blindness, 
Low-vision,  Hearing  Impairment  (deaf  and  hard  of  hearing),  Dwarfism  or  a  leprosy  cured 
person-(Disabilities defined in measurable terms) or a person with not less than 40% of the 
following disabilities as certified by a certifying authority - Locomotor Disability, Intellectual 
Disability,  Mental  Illness,  Autism  Spectrum  Disorder,  Cerebral  Palsy,  Muscular  Dystrophy, 
Chronic  Neurological  conditions,  Specific  Learning  Disabilities,  Multiple  Sclerosis,  Speech 
and  Language  disability,  Thalassemia,  Hemophilia,  Sickle  Cell  disease,  Multiple  Disabilities, 
Acid Attack victim, Parkinson’s disease. (Disabilities not defined  in measurable terms in the 
Act). 
According  to World  Health  Organization – Disabilities   is  an  umbrella  term,  covering 
impairments, activity  limitations, and participation restrictions. An impairment is a problem 
in body function or structure; an activity limitation is a difficulty encountered by an individual 
in executing a task or action; while a participation restriction is a problem experienced by an 
individual  in  involvement  in  life  situations.  Thus,  disability  is  a  complex  phenomenon, 

 [119] 
reflecting  an  interaction  between  features of  a  person’s  body  and  features of  the  society  in 
which he or she lives. 
Do you know? 
Impairments are  problems  in  body  function  or  alterations  in  body  structure –  for  example, 
paralysis or blindness. 
Activity limitations are difficulties in executing activities – for example, walking or eating. 
Participation  restrictions are  problems  with  involvement  in  any  area  of  life  –  for  example, 
facing discrimination in employment or transportation 
 
The  International  Classification  of  Functioning,  Disability,  and  Health (ICF)
2
  lists  9  broad 
domains of functioning which can be affected: 
 Le
arning and applying knowledge 
 General tasks and demands 
 Communication 
 Basic  physical  mobility,  Domestic  life,  and  Self-care  (for  example, activities  of  daily 
living) 
 Interpersonal interactions and relationships 
 Community, social and civic life, including employment 
 Other major life areas 
The  ICF  states that  a  variety  of  conceptual  models  have  been  proposed  to  understand  and 
explain  disability  and  functioning,  which  it  seeks  to  integrate.  Major  conceptual  models  of 
disability have been proposed by ICF. 
The  medical  model views  disability  as  a  feature  of  the  person,  directly  caused  by  disease, 
trauma  or  other  health  condition,  which  requires  medical  care  provided  in  the  form  of 
individual  treatment  by  professionals.  Disability,  on  this  model,  calls  for  medical  or  other 
treatment or intervention, to 'correct' the problem with the individual. 
The social model of disability sees disability as a  socially created problem and not at all an 
attribute of an individual. On the social model, disability demands a political response, since 
the  problem  is  created  by  an  unaccommodating  physical  environment  brought  about  by 
attitudes and other features of the social environment. 
Biopsychosocial model is one that synthesizes what is true in the medical and social models, 
without making the mistake each makes in reducing the whole, complex notion of disability 
to  one  of  its  aspects.  ICF  is  based  on  this  model,  an  integration  of  medical  and  social.  ICF 
provides,  by  this  synthesis,  a  coherent  view  of  different  perspectives  of  health:  biological, 
individual and social. 

 [120] 
The  following  diagram  is  one  representation  of  the  model  of  disability  that  is  the  basis  for 
ICF. 
 
As  the  diagram  indicates,  in  ICF  disability  and  functioning  are  viewed  as  outcomes  of 
interactions  between  health  conditions  (diseases,  disorders  and  injuries)  and  contextual 
factors.  Among  contextual  factors  are  external  environmental  factors  (for  example,  social 
attitudes, architectural characteristics, legal and social structures, as well as climate, terrain 
and so forth); and internal personal factors, which include gender, age, coping styles, social 
background, education, profession, past and current experience, overall behaviour pattern, 
character  and  other  factors  that  influence  how  disability  is  experienced  by  the  individual. 
The diagram identifies the three levels of human functioning classified by ICF: functioning at 
the level of body or body part, the whole person, and the whole person in a social context. 
Disability therefore involves dysfunction at one or more of these same levels: impairments, 
activity limitations and participation restrictions. 
The formal definitions of these components of ICF are provided below. 
Body   Functions are   physiological   functions   of   body   systems   (including   psychological 
functions). 
Body   Structures are   anatomical   parts   of   the   body   such   as   organs,   limbs   and   their 
components. Impairments are  problems  in  body  function  or  structure  such  as  a  significant 
deviation or loss. Activity is the execution of a task or action by an individual. 
Participation is involvement in a life situation. 
Activity Limitations are difficulties an individual may have in executing activities. 
Participation  Restrictions are  problems  an  individual may  experience  in  involvement  in  life 
situations. For example, a hearing-disabled individual without a sign language interpreter, a 
wheelchair  user  in  a  building  without  an  accessible  bathroom  or  elevator,  a  visually-
challenged person using a computer without screen-reading software. 
Environmental  Factors make  up  the  physical,  social  and  attitudinal  environment  in  which 
people live and conduct their lives. 

 [121] 
4.1.4  Concept of Disorder 
Disorder is a functional abnormality or disturbance. The Oxford English Dictionary defines a 
disorder  as an  illness  that  disrupts  normal  physical  or  mental  function.  Going  by  this 
definition, disorder could be defined as a set of problems, which result in causing significant 
difficulty,  distress,  impairment  and/or  suffering  in  a  person’s  daily  life,  or  a  dysfunction 
which  negatively  affects  the  structure  or  function  of  an  organism  physiologically  and 
psychologically. 
Do you know> 
Emotional  and  Behavioural  Disorders  (EBD)  is  a  broad  category  which  is  used  commonly  in 
educational settings, to group a range of more specific perceived difficulties of children and 
adolescents. 
A child exhibiting one or more of the following characteristics to a marked degree for a long 
duration of time that adversely affects their education: 
1.   Difficulty to learn that cannot be explained by intellectual, sensory, or health factors. 
2.   Difficulty  to  build  or  maintain  satisfactory  interpersonal  relationships  with  peers  and 
teachers. 
3.   Inappropriate types of behaviour or feelings under normal circumstances. 
4.   A general pervasive mood of unhappiness or depression. 
5.   A  tendency  to  develop  physical  symptoms  or  fears  associated  with  personal  or  school 
problems. 
 
A   disorder   must   be   "a   manifestation   of   a   behavioural,   psychological,   or   biological 
dysfunction in the person" (American Psychiatric Association, 1987). It is also required that a 
disorder  must  be  associated  with  "present  distress  (a  painful  symptom)  or  disability 
(impairment in one or more important areas of functioning) or with a significantly increased 
risk of suffering death, pain, disability, or an important loss of freedom." 
Looking at disorders in a little more detail, we can say they are physical or mental conditions 
that disturb the regular or normal functioning and everyday activities of an individual. They 
can take up a lot of time and complicate the normal functioning of an individual. Due to the 
nature of disorders being flexible, they may not always be evident in every single situation. 
Equally what may affect  one  individual may not  be as troublesome to another individual in 
the same situation. Therefore, a disorder is a very flexible and individual term. 
4.1.5  What is the Right Term? 
It  is  a  matter  of  confusion  for  many  as  to  what  is  the  right  term  –  Disability/Disorder/ 
Children with Special Needs/Divyangjan. As per the Disability Act, “Person with Disability” or 

 [122] 
Divyangjan are the acceptable terms. Disorders are used frequently in medical terminology 
whereas Children with Special Needs (CWSN) is more frequent in educational set up. 
 
I. Tick the correct option 
1. A Disability present at the time of birth is also known as 
 (a) invisible disability 
 (b)     cognitive disability 
 (c) congenital Disability 
 (d)     temporary Disability 
2. Which one is Congenital disability? 
 (a) Down syndrome 
 (b)     Cerebral palsy 
 (c) Polio 
 (d)     Both A and B 
3. Name  the  category  of  disability  which  can  be  difficult  for  others  to  recognize/ 
acknowledge. 
 (a) Physical Disabilities 
 (b)     Hidden Disabilities 
 (c) Cognitive Disabilities 
 (d)     Intellectual Disabilities 
4. Which is Hidden disability? 
 (a) Dyslexia 
 (b)     Autism Spectrum Disorder 
 (c) ADHD 
 (d)     Down Syndrome 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Write in detail about Disability. 
2. How are the terms Disability and Disorder associated with each other? 
3. Define Impairment and Disability. 
III. Answer the following question in 150—200 words. 
1. Discuss the need of sports for children with special needs. 
 
  

 [123] 
4.2.1  Types of Disability  
Prior  to  1995,  we  were  familiar  with  only  four  types  of  disabilities;  Orthopaedic  Handicap, 
Visual  Handicap,  Hearing  Handicap  and  Mental  Handicap.  In  1995, Persons  with  Disability 
Act came into  force and term handicap was replaced with terms disability and impairment. 
This act recognized three more disabilities; Low Vision, Leprosy Cured and Mental Illness. In 
the  year  2016,  a  new  Act  was  enforced  -Right  of  Persons  with  Disability  Act (RPwD  Act). 
This act recognizes 21 disabilities. 
4.2.2  Physical Disability  
A  physical  disability  is  the  long-term  loss  or  impairment  of  part  of  an  individual’s  body 
function, resulting in a limitation of physical functioning, mobility, dexterity or stamina. Due 
to the functional loss the individual experiences the inability to perform normal movements 
of  the  body,  such  as  walking  and  mobility,  sitting  and  standing,  use  of  hands  and  arms, 
muscle control, etc. These disabilities include 
1. Locomotor Disabilities – A person's inability to execute distinctive activities associated 
with  movement  of  self  and  objects  resulting  from  affliction  of  musculoskeletal  or 
nervous system or both including. 
2. Leprosy cured person means a person who has been cured  of  leprosy but is suffering 
from: 
 i. loss of sensation in hands or feet as well as loss of sensation and paresis in the eye 
and eye- lid but with no manifest deformity; 
 ii. manifest  deformity  and  paresis  but  having  sufficient  mobility  in  their  hands  and 
feet to enable them to engage in normal economic activity; 
 iii.    extreme  physical  deformity  as  well  as  advanced  age 
which  prevents  him/her  from  undertaking  any  gainful 
occupation, and the expression "leprosy cured" shall be 
construed accordingly; 
3. Cerebral   Palsy refers   to   a   Group   of   non-progressive 
neurological   condition   affecting   body   movements   and 
muscle  coordination,  caused  by  damage  to  one  or  more 
specific areas of the brain, usually occurring before, during 
or shortly after birth; 
4. Dwarfism means a medical or genetic condition resulting in 
an adult height of 4 feet 10 inches (147 centimetres) or less; 

 [124] 
5. Muscular   Dystrophy means   a   group   of   hereditary   genetic   muscle   disease   that 
weakens the muscles that move the human body and persons with multiple dystrophy 
have incorrect and missing information  in their genes, which prevents them from making 
the  proteins  they  need  for  healthy  muscles. It  is  characterised  by  progressive  skeletal muscle 
weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue; 
6. Acid attack victim refers to a person disfigured due to violent assaults by throwing of 
acid or similar corrosive substance. 
7. Visual  impairment (blindness)  means  a  condition  where  a  person  has  any  of  the 
following conditions, after best correction 
 i. total absence of sight; or 
 ii. visual  acuity  less  than  3/60  or  less  than  10/200  (Snellen)  in  the  better  eye  with 
best possible correction; or 
 iii. limitation of the field of vision subtending an angle of less than 10 degree. 
8. Visual  impairment (Low-vision)  means  a  condition  where  a  person  has  any  of  the 
following conditions, namely: 
 i. Visual  acuity  not  exceeding  6/18  or  less  than  20/60  upto  3/60  or  upto  10/200 
(Snellen) in the better eye with best possible corrections; or 
 ii. limitation  of the  field of vision subtending an angle of less than 40 degree up to 
10 degree. 
 Hearing  Impairment -  Hearing  impairment  is  the  inability  of  an  individual  to  hear  sounds 
adequately. This may be due to improper development, damage or disease to any part of the 
hearing  mechanism.  Hearing  is  a  prerequisite  for  the  development  of  normal  speech  and 
language.  A  child  learns  to  speak  by  hearing  the  speech  of  others  in  the  family  and  in  his 
surroundings.  Deafness  at  birth  or  in  early  childhood  has  disastrous  effects  on  the  child's 
overall development. These effects vary depending upon the age of onset, nature and degree 
of  hearing  impairment.  Deafness is  an  invisible  impairment.  Keen  observation  is  necessary in 
order to identify a deaf child/individual. 
9. Hearing  impairment (Deaf)  means  persons  having  70  DB  hearing  loss  in  speech 
frequencies in both ears; 
10.    Hearing  impairment (Hard  of  hearing)  means  person  having  60  DB  to  70  DB  hearing 
loss in speech frequencies in both ears; 
11.    Speech and language disability means a permanent disability arising out of conditions 
such  as  laryngectomy  or  aphasia  affecting  one  or  more  components  of  speech  and 
language due to organic or neurological causes. 

 [125] 
4.2.3  Intellectual Disability  
An individual with intellectual disability has limitations in two areas. 
Intellectual functioning, which  refers to a  person’s ability to learn, reason, make decisions, 
and solve problems. 
Adaptive   behaviours, or   skills   necessary   for   day-to-day   life,   such   as   being   able   to 
communicate effectively, interact with others, and take care of oneself. 
1. Intellectual  disability, a  condition  characterised  by  significant   limitation  both  in 
intellectual   functioning   (reasoning,   learning,   problem   solving)   and   in   adaptive 
behaviour which covers a range of every day, social and practical skills. 
2. Specific  learning  disabilities means  a  heterogeneous  group  of  conditions  wherein 
there is a deficit in processing language, spoken or written, that may manifest itself as 
a   difficulty   to   comprehend,   speak,   read,   write,   spell,   or   to   do   mathematical 
calculations   and   includes   such   conditions   as   perceptual   disabilities,   dyslexia, 
dysgraphia, dyscalculia, dyspraxia and developmental aphasia. 
3. Autism    spectrum    disorder means    a    neuro-developmental    condition    typically 
appearing  in  the  first  three  years  of  life  that  significantly  affects  a  person's  ability  to 
communicate,   understand   relationships   and   relate   to   others,   and   is   frequently 
associated with unusual or stereotypical rituals or behaviours. 
4.2.4  Mental Behaviour 
1. Mental illness means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation 
or  memory  that  grossly  impairs  judgment,  behaviour,  capacity  to  recognise  reality  or 
ability to meet the ordinary demands of life, but does not include retardation which is 
a  condition  of  arrested  or  incomplete  development  of  mind  of  a  person,  specially 
characterised by sub normality of intelligence. 
4.2.5  Chronic Neurological Conditions 
1. Multiple  sclerosis means  an  inflammatory,  nervous  system  disease  in  which  the 
myelin  sheaths  around  the  axons  of  nerve  cells  of  the  brain  and  spinal  cord  are 
damaged, leading to demyelination and affecting the ability of nerve cells in the brain 
and spinal cord to communicate with each other. 
2. Parkinson's  disease means  a  progressive  disease  of  the  nervous  system  marked  by 
tremor,  muscular  rigidity,  and  slow,  imprecise  movement,  chiefly  affecting  middle-
aged and elderly people associated with degeneration of the basal ganglia of the brain 
and a deficiency of the neurotransmitter dopamine. 

 [126] 
4.2.6  Blood Disorders 
1. Haemophilia means an inheritable disease, usually affecting only male but transmitted 
by  women  to  their  male  children,  characterised  by  loss  or  impairment  of  the  normal 
clotting ability of blood so that a minor wound may result in fatal bleeding; 
2. Thalassemia means a group of inherited disorders characterised by reduced or absent 
amounts of haemoglobin. 
3. Sickle  cell  disease means  a  haemolytic  disorder  characterised  by  chronic  anaemia, 
painful events, and various complications due to associated tissue and organ damage; 
"haemolytic"  refers  to  the  destruction  of  the  cell  membrane  of  red  blood  cells 
resulting in the release of haemoglobin. 
4.2.7  Multiple Disabilities 
1. Multiple Disabilities (more than one of the above specified disabilities) including deaf 
blindness  which  means  a  condition  in  which  a  person  may  have  combination  of 
hearing  and  visual  impairments  causing  severe  communication,  developmental,  and 
educational problems. 
4.2.8  Nature of Disabilities 
Students  with  disabilities  face  various  difficulties  in  their  personal,  academic  and  sports 
related aspects. Broadly these may be described into three major domains. These difficulties 
may be caused by: 
1. Learning Disabilities 
2. Intellectual Disabilities 
3. Physical Disabilities 
4.2.9  Learning Difficulties  
A   person   with   cognitive   disabilities   has   trouble   remembering,   learning   new   things, 
concentrating,  or  making  decisions  that  affect  her/his  everyday  life.  Cognitive  disability 
ranges from mild to severe. A person with a mild cognitive disability people may be able to 
do her/his everyday activities. Severe levels of disability can lead to her/his losing the ability 
to  understand  the  meaning  or  importance  of  something  and  the  ability  to  talk  or  write, 
resulting  in  the  inability  to  live  independently.  Some  of  the  main  categories  of  functional 
cognitive disabilities include the following deficits or difficulties. 

 [127] 
 
Visual 
 
 
solving 
 
 
Maths 
 
Attention
Reading, 
linguistic, 
verbal and 
writing 
 
 
Memory - Memory refers to the ability of a user to recall what they have learned over time. 
A common model for explaining memory involves the concepts of working (i.e., immediate) 
memory,  short-term  memory,  and  long-term  memory.  Some  individuals  with  cognitive 
disabilities have difficulties with one, two, or all three of these memory types. 
Problem  Solving -  Some  individuals  with  cognitive  disabilities  have  a  difficult  time  solving 
problems  as  they  arise.  In  many  instances,  their  resilience  can  be  low,  and  the  resulting 
frustration is such that they choose to give up and not persist to solve the problem. 
Attention -There  are  many  individuals  that  have  difficulty  with  focusing  their  attention  to 
the task at hand. Distractions such as any specific sound, colour, design frequently shift the 
attention. 
On  a  positive  note,  some  people  with  attention  deficits  are  highly  creative  and  very 
productive in short bursts, with an abundance of energy and enthusiasm. On a less positive 
note, it can be difficult for people with ADHD to stick to a task for a long period of time. 
Reading,  Linguistic,  Verbal  and  Writing  Comprehension  – Difficulties  related  to  reading, 
speaking, understanding and writing are another challenge. Reading disorder, also known as 
Dyslexia,   is   characterized   by   trouble   with   reading   despite   normal   intelligence.   These 
difficulties  may  be  mild  or  severe.  Problems  may  include  difficulties  in  spelling  words, 
reading quickly, writing words, "sounding out" words in the head, pronouncing words when 
reading  aloud  and  understanding  what  one  reads.  In  fact,  many  of  the  brightest  minds  of 

 [128] 
recent  generations  such  as  Albert  Einstein,  Thomas  Edison  and  Henry  Ford  have  suffered 
from some sort of language or text comprehension difficulty. 
 
Non-literal  text,  such  as  sarcasm,  parody,  idiom,  metaphor,  slang,  can  be  a  problem  for 
some readers to understand. 
The following are the six types of Reading difficulties. 
i. Phonological - trouble in breaking speech into individual sounds 
ii. Surface  Dyslexia -  taking  longer  to  process  language  when  they  move  beyond  the 
decoding stage 
iii. Visual  Dyslexia -  trouble  reading  and  remembering  what  has  been  seen  on  a  page 
because the brain doesn’t receive the full picture of what the eyes are seeing. 
iv. Primary  Dyslexia -  refers  to  dyslexia  when  it  is  a  result  of  a  genetically  inherited 
condition.  The  individual  has  difficulties  in  processing  sounds,  letters  and  numbers, 
which negatively impact her/his abilities in spelling, reading and math. 
v. Secondary  Dyslexia –  neurological  impairment  caused  due  to  infections,  or  poor 
nutrition in the womb, leading to brain development issues which result in dyslexia. 
vi. Trauma  Dyslexia -  brain  injury  from  trauma  or  disease  can  sometimes  lead  to 
difficulties with language processing, which result in dyslexia. 
Difficulty in Writing, also known as Dysgraphia, is a learning disability that affects a person’s 
handwriting  ability  and  fine  motor  skills.  Problems  may  include   illegible  handwriting, 
inconsistent spacing, poor spatial planning on paper, poor spelling, and difficulty composing 
writing as well as thinking and writing at the same time. 
 

 [129] 
There are three type of dysgraphia: 
i. Dyslexic  Dysgraphia –  Their  written  text  is  unreadable;  are  there  spelling  issues. 
However, the individuals can copy, draw and colour. 
ii. Motor  Dysgraphia–  It  is  caused  by  weakness  of  fine  motor  skills.  An  individual  with 
motor  dysgraphia  can  copy,  draw,  colour  within  normal  range,  but  has  difficulty  in  all 
types of written work, manipulating a pencil, tying shoes etc. 
iii. Spatial Dysgraphia -A person with spatial dysgraphia has a defect in the understanding 
of  space  caused  by  brain  having  a  difficult  with  evaluating  what  the  eyes  are  seeing 
and how objects are positioned relative to each other. Handwriting is unreadable with 
unevenly spaced and sized letter. 
Visual  comprehension -  In  many  ways,  this  is  the  opposite  of  the  problem  experienced  by 
people    with    reading    and    verbal    processing    difficulties.    Individuals    with    visual 
comprehension  difficulties  may  recognize  the  fact  that  there  are  objects,  but  may  not  be 
able to identify the objects. For example, they may not realize that a photograph of a person 
is  a  representation  of  a  person,  though  they  can  plainly  see  the  photograph  itself  (as  an 
object). For these people, a moving, talking person in a video may be easier to identify and 
process mentally than a static image of a person in a photograph. 
Video  and  multimedia,  accompanied  with  narration,  may  be  the  best  way  to  communicate 
with  these  individuals.  For  example,  it  will  be  difficult  for  some  person  with  cognitive 
disability difficult to comprehend or recognize this sports personality in the given picture or 
what she is doing. 
Math   Comprehension   – Also   known   as   Discalculia,   is   a   difficulty   in   learning   or 
comprehending  arithmetic,  such  as  difficulty  in  understanding  numbers,  learning  how  to 
manipulate    numbers,    performing    mathematical    calculations    and    learning    facts    in 
mathematics. It includes 
 d
ifficulty in comprehension of math symbols, 
 difficulty in memorizing and organizing numbers, 
 difficulty in telling time, 
 trouble in counting 
 difficulty in using math verbally 
 difficulty in understanding mathematical relationships 
 difficulty in performing specified mathematical operation 
 difficulty in manipulating concrete material. 

 [130] 
  
4.2.10   Intellectual Disabilities  
Intellectual   disability   is   a   condition   of   significantly   subaverage   general   intellectual 
functioning that impacts adaptive behaviours. Different domains of adaptive behaviour may 
be  affected  in  this  condition.  These  domains  determine  how  well  an  individual  copes  with 
everyday tasks. 
i. Conceptual – Language, Reading, Writing, Math, Reasoning, Knowledge, Memory 
ii. Social -  Empathy,  Social  judgement,  Interpersonal  communication  skill,  Make  and 
retain friendships 
iii. Practical - Self-management, Personal care, Job responsibilities, Money management, 
Recreation, Organizing school and work tasks 
On the basis of IQ, children with intellectual disabilities can be classified as mild, moderate, 
severe and profound. Study the following summary of the common attributes. 
 
Down  Syndrome –  Down  Syndrome  is  a  condition  which  is  considered  as  subtype  of 
intellectual  disability.  Also  known  as  trisomy  21,  it  is  a  genetic  disorder  caused  by  the 

 [131] 
presence  of  all  or  part  of  a  third  copy  of  chromosome  21.  It  is  usually  associated  with 
physical  growth  delays,  mild  to  moderate  intellectual  disability,  and  characteristic  facial 
features.  The  average  IQ  of  a  young  adult  with  Down  syndrome  is  50,  equivalent  to  the 
mental  ability  of  an  8-  or  9-year-old  child,  but  this  can  vary  widely.  At  birth,  babies  with 
Down Syndrome usually have certain characteristic signs, including: 
 
Picture Source
3
 

 flat facial features, 
 small head and ears 
 short neck 
 bulging tongue 
 eyes that slant upward 
 atypically shaped ears 
 poor muscle tone 
People with Down syndrome usually have some degree of developmental disability, but it’s 
often  mild  to  moderate.  Mental  and  social  development  delays  may  mean  that  the  child 
could have: 
 impulsive behaviour 
 poor judgment 
 short attention span 
 slow learning capabilities 
Autism Spectrum disorder - Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is an umbrella term for a group 
of developmental  disorders that are neurological  in origin and cause social, communication 
and  behavioural  challenges.  ASD  is  mainly  characterized  by  impaired  social  interaction  and 

 [132] 
communication  and  the  presence  of  repetitive  behaviours  or  restricted  interests.  Children 
with  ASD  may  also  have  their  sensory  sensitivity  affected  i.e,  they  may  be  under  or  over 
sensitive to certain senses (For example, loud noises, certain fabrics etc). 
Symptoms are typically recognized between one and two years of age. Long-term problems 
may  include  difficulties  in  performing  daily  tasks,  creating  and  keeping  relationships,  and 
maintaining a job. 
Symptoms of ASD include 
Developmental Delay in Initial Years 
i. failure to show interest, not responding to name 
ii. delayed imaginative play 
iii. regression in variety of domain as communication, social cognitive and self - help skills. 
Problems with Social Interaction 
i. largely prefer not to play or interact with others 
ii. display lack of awareness or understanding of other people's thoughts or feelings 
iii. display attention seeking behaviour 
iv. maintain  poor  eye  contact:  a  child  with  autism  may  fail  to  make  eye  contact  when 
called by name. 
v. inability  to  read facial  expressions:  they  often  don't  know  how  to  recognize  emotions 
from  others'  facial  expressions,  or  they  may  not  respond  with  the  appropriate  facial 
expressions 
vi. display  unusual  speech  pattern;  at  least  half  of  children  with  autism  speak  in  a  flat, 
monotone or they may not recognize the need to control the volume of their voice in 
different  social  settings.  For  example,  they  may  speak  loudly  in  libraries  or  movie 
theatres. 
Difficulty in Communication 
i. repetitive  or  rigid  language,  and  restricted  interests  in  conversation.  (For  example,  a 
child might repeat words or insist on always talking about the same subject.) 
ii. impairments   in   pragmatic   communication   skills,   such   as   difficulty   initiating   a 
conversation   or   failure   to   consider   the   interests   of   the   listener   to   sustain   a 
conversation. 
iii. language   impairment.   (children   may   develop   language  skills   at   an   uneven   pace 
acquiring some aspects of communication, while never fully developing others, or may 
remain completely nonverbal throughout their lives.) 

 [133] 
iv. Behaviour Problems 
v. stereotyped behaviours such as rocking, hand flapping, finger flicking, head banging, or 
repeating phrases or sounds, especially when the child gets stressed, anxious or upset. 
vi. resistance  to  change,  and  preference  for  routines  and  rituals  that  they  must  follow, 
like  eating  certain  foods  in  a  specific  order,  or  taking  the  same  path  to  school  every 
day. The child may have a meltdown if there is any change or disruption to his routine. 
vii.     restricted interests and excessive interest in a thing or topic while ignoring everything 
else. (For example, children might try to learn everything about a single topic, such as 
the weather or sports, and talk about it constantly.) 
viii.    oversensitivity to loud sounds, bright lights, strong smells, or being touched. 
Self-injury 
i. self-injurious  behaviours  (SIB)  including  head-banging,  self-cutting,  self-biting,  and 
hair-  pulling.  These  behaviours  may  even  result  in  serious  injury.  Higher  rates  of  self-
injury are also noted in socially isolated individuals with autism. 
4.2.11   Physical Disabilities  
There  are  different  types  of  Physical  Disabilities.  Paralympics  Committee  divides  athletes  in  groups 
by  the  degree  of  activity  limitation  related  to  the  impairment  and/or  specific  to  the  tasks  in  the 
sport. 
 
Mobility and Physical Impairments – Physical impairment may affect upper limbs only and 
the  this  is  commonly  called  ‘Upper  limb  disability’  or  lower  limbs  may  be  impaired  and  the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 [134] 
condition  is  termed  as  Lower  limb  disability.  Manual  Dexterity  of  the  person  may  also  be 
affected due to physical impairment. This refers to the ability to make coordinated hand and 
finger  movements  to  grasp  and  manipulate  objects.  Manual  dexterity  includes  muscular, 
skeletal, and neurological functions to produce small, precise movements. 
Extension Activity 
Design some physical activities for students with physical or intellectual disabilities. Some of 
these students are sensitive to sound, others have difficulties with coordination. Create 
some fun games that these students could play. As you go through this process, you may 
need to research the features of the disability and adapt equipment, or the structure of the 
activity, to support the students. Reflect on what you have learned in this process. How has 
your understanding of sport for diverse ranges of ability changed? 
 
Amputation - It is the removal of a limb by trauma, medical illness, or surgery. As a surgical 
measure,  it  is  used  to  control  pain  or  a  disease  process  in  the  affected  limb,  such  as 
malignancy or gangrene. The amputated person is called an amputee. 
Cerebral  Palsy-  The  word cerebral means having  to  do  with  the  brain.  The  word palsy 
means weakness  or  problems  with  body  movement. Cerebral  Palsy (CP)  is  caused  by 
damage  to  the  parts  of  the  brain  that  control  movement,  balance,  and  posture.  CP  is  a 
group   of   permanent   movement   disorders   that   appear   in   early   childhood.   Signs   and 
symptoms  vary  among  people  and  over  time.  Although,  most  often,  the  problems  occur 
during  pregnancy,  they  may  also  occur  during  childbirth  or  shortly  after  birth.  Symptoms 
include   poor   coordination,   stiff   muscles,   weak   muscles,   and   tremors.   There   may   be 
problems   in   sensation,   vision,   hearing,   swallowing,   and   speaking.   Often,   babies   with 
cerebral  palsy  do  not  roll  over,  sit,  crawl  or  walk  as  early  as  other  children  of  their  age. 
Other  symptoms  include  seizures  and  problems  with  thinking  or  reasoning,  which  occur  in 
about one third of people with CP. 
 
Picture Source
4
 

 [135] 
Physical problems related to Cerebral Palsy include 
 Delays  in  reaching  motor  skill  milestones,  such  as  rolling  over,  sitting  up  alone,  or 
crawling 
 Variations in muscle tone, such as being too floppy or too stiff 
 Delays in speech development and difficulty speaking 
 Spasticity, or stiff muscles and exaggerated reflexes 
 Lack of muscle coordination 
 Tremors or involuntary movements 
 Excessive drooling and problems with swallowing 
 Difficulty in walking 
 Favouring one side of the body, such as reaching with one hand 
 Neurological problems, such as seizures, 
Types  of  Cerebral  Palsy –  Depending  upon  the  type  of  muscle  tone,  cerebral  palsy  can  be 
classified into four types. 
Types of Cerebral Palsy 
Spasticity Athetosis Ataxia Mixed Type 
 
Spasticity refers to muscle stiffness or increased muscle tension. Muscular stiffness may be 
mild, moderate or severe. In severe spasticity muscles are very tight and hypertonic. 
Athetosis means   uncontrolled   movement.   The   person   shows   jerky   or   slow   wriggly 
movement of the legs, arms, hands or face. The muscle tone keeps fluctuating from stiff to 
floppy. 
Ataxia means   unsteady,   shaky   movements.   Low   muscle   tone   (Hypotonia)   and   poor 
coordination of movements are the characteristics of ataxic type of cerebral palsy. 
Mixed type of cerebral palsy reflects damage in  more than one area of brain. If a child has 
both spastic and athetoid cerebral palsy, then some of the muscles have stiffness and others 
have involuntary movement. 
Muscular Dystrophy- is a group of muscle diseases that results in increasing weakening and 
breakdown of skeletal muscles over time. The disorders differ depending upon the muscles 
that  are  primarily  affected,  the  degree  of  weakness,  how  fast  they  worsen,  and  when 
symptoms  begin.  Many  people  eventually  become  unable  to  walk.  Some  types  are  also 
associated with problems in other organs. Muscular Dystrophy may even be fatal. Muscular 
dystrophy   is   caused   by   mutations   on   the   X   chromosome.   Each   version   of   muscular 

 [136] 
dystrophy  is  due  to  a  different  set  of  mutations,  but  all  prevent  the  body  from  producing 
dystrophin. Dystrophin  is a protein essential for  building and repairing muscles. At present, 
there is no way to prevent or reverse muscular dystrophy, but different kinds of therapy and 
drug  treatment  can  improve  a  person’s  quality  of  life  and  delay  the  progression   of 
symptoms. 
 
Picture Source
5
 
Early symptoms of Muscular Dystrophy include: 
 a
 waddling gait 
 pain and stiffness in the muscles 
 difficulty with running and jumping 
 walking on toes 
 difficulty sitting up or standing 
 learning disabilities, such as developing speech later than usual 
 frequent falls 
As time goes on, the following become more likely: 
 inability to walk 
 a  shortening  of  muscles  and  tendons,  further  limiting  movement  breathing  problems 
can become so severe that assisted breathing is necessary 
 curvature of the spine can be affected if muscles are not strong enough to support its 
structure 
 the muscles of the heart can be weakened, leading to cardiac problems 
 difficulty swallowing, with a risk of aspiration pneumonia. A feeding tube is sometimes 
necessary. 

 [137] 
Visual  Disability -  Visual  impairment  is  often  defined  as  a  best  corrected  visual  acuity  of 
worse  than  either  20/40  or  20/60.  The  term  blindness  is  used  for  complete  or  nearly 
complete  vision  loss.  Visual  impairment  may  cause  difficulties  with  normal  daily  activities 
such  as  driving,  reading,  socializing,  and  walking.  A  significant  limitation  of  visual  capability 
resulting  from  either  disease,  trauma  or  congenital  or  degenerative  condition  that  cannot 
be corrected by conventional means such as refractive correction, medication, or surgery. 
Hearing  Disability -  Hearing  loss,  also  known  as  hearing  impairment,  is  a  partial  or  total 
inability to hear. A person with hearing impairment has little to no hearing. Hearing loss may 
occur  in  one  or  both  ears.  In  children,  hearing  problems  can  affect  the  ability  to  learn 
spoken  language  and  in  adults  it  can  create  difficulties  with  social  interaction  and  at  work. 
Hearing loss can be temporary or permanent. 
4.2.12   Causes of Disabilities and Disorder 
Causes  of  disabilities  can  be  broadly  classified  into  three  categories;  pre-natal  causes, 
perinatal causes and post-natal causes. 
 P
re-natal   causes involve   events,   accidents,   illness,   infection   to   mother   during 
pregnancy that affect the baby. Conditions like high blood pressure or diabetes of the 
mother during pregnancy can cause disability in the child. 
 Perinatal  causes are  the  conditions  occurring  during  the  delivery  of  the  child  that 
affect the new-born. Delayed labour pain, low birth weight or neonatal infections may 
cause a disability. 
 Post-natal    causes include    post    birth    conditions    like,    illness,    infection,    poor 
environment, accidents, psychological factors etc. 
The causes may be further sub-divided as 
1. Biological  Causes –  Some  disabilities  are  due  to  the  disorder  of  genes,  infectious 
disease   disturbance   in   glands   functioning,   illness.   Down   syndrome,   Muscular 
dystrophy, polio, Developmental disorder are example of various biological issues. 
2. Psychological  Causes –  Mental  health  problems  such  as  depression,  bipolar  disorder 
may lead to a spectrum of mental disorders or conditions that influence our emotions, 
cognitions,  and/or  behaviours.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  causes  of  mental  health 
problems   are   very   difficult   to   diagnose.   They   tend   to   be   some   of   the   most 
misunderstood disabilities. 
3. Delay  in  Early  Screening  and  Poor  management  of  Disability -  How  a  child  plays, 
learns,   speaks,   moves,   and   behaves   all   offer   important   clues   about   a   child’s 
development.  A  delay  in  any  of  these  developmental  milestones  could  be  a  sign  of 

 [138] 
developmental  challenges.  Early  intervention  services,  like  those  services  that  help  a 
child  learn  to  speak,  walk,  or  interact  with  others,  can  really  make  a  difference  and 
enhance  a  child’s  learning  and  development.  Early  screening  and  identification  are 
critically  important steps towards giving young children with disabilities a strong start 
in life. 
4. Lifestyle –  The  mother’s  lifestyle  during  pregnancy  has  a  vital  effect  on  the  child’s 
growth  and  development.  If  a  mother  smokes  during  pregnancy,  it  has  an  adverse 
effect   on   foetal   growth   and   development.   Intake   of   alcohol   and   indulgence   in 
substance  abuse  during  pregnancy  are  the  most  common  causes  of  developmental 
disabilities,  including  cognitive  disability,  learning  disabilities,  ADHD  and  behavioural 
challenges. Once the child is  diagnosed with a learning disorder, she/he must be kept 
meaningfully  occupied.  The  child’s  eating,  sleeping,  and  exercise  habits  are  very 
important.  In  addition  to  healthy  physical  habits,  children  may  be  frustrated  by the 
challenges presented by their learning disability and, so, should be encouraged to have healthy 
emotional habits too. 
5. Accidents  and  War –  One  can  be  the  victim  of  an  accident  at  the  workplace,  road 
accident,  chemical  accident,  nuclear  accident,  or  get  exposed  to  radiation  etc.  This 
may  lead  to  disability.  Dangerous  working  environment  and  poor  safety  precautions 
are  the  conditions  where  one  may  get  disabilities  in  the  long  run.  Exposure  to 
biological warfare, nuclear radiation, and suffering physical or psychological trauma of 
a bomb explosion are other reasons of wartime disabilities. 
6. Poor  Approach  to  Healthcare –  Many  disabilities  can  be  prevented  easily  if  there  is 
proper   access   to   healthcare   facilities   during   difficult   labour   and   birth.   Proper 
immunization also helps in preventing many disabilities. In remote areas people do not 
get proper health facilities and it sometimes results in disabilities and disorders. 
7. Lack  of  Education  and  Awareness –  Lack  of  awareness  about  certain  precautions 
during  or  post  pregnancy  may  lead  to  disability.  Awareness  about  nutrition  and 
exercise  helps  to  prevent  disabilities  or  disorders.  Due  to  lack  of  awareness  people 
start believing in many kind of superstitions and get misguided. 
8. Exposure  to  Chemicals –  Pesticides  and  insecticides  and  other  harmful  chemicals  if 
mixed  in  edible  items  and  may  give  rise  to  disabilities  in  people  and  birth  defects  in 
babies.  These  substances  may  cause  disorder  in  the  functioning  of  the  human  body 
system and may lead to disabilities. 
9. Illness –  Illnesses  like  cancer,  diabetes,  heart  disease  cause  a  number  of  long  term 
disabilities  such  as  arthritis,  musculoskeletal  disorder  etc  are  a  significant  cause  of 
disability. 
  

 [139] 
I. Tick the correct option 
1. In which category would you place a person with intellectual disability if he has a IQ 
level between 50-55? 
 (a) Mild 
 (b)     Moderate 
 (c) Severe 
 (d)     Profound 
2. A genetic disorder is found in an intellectual disability which is known as? 
 (a) Autism 
 (b)     Cerebral palsy 
 (c) Down-syndrome 
 (d)     None 
3. World Disability Day is celebrated on 
 (a) 2nd April 
 (b)     21st June 
 (c) 29th August 
 (d)     3rd December 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
1. Write a short note on cognitive disabilities 
2. What are the characteristics of cerebral palsy? 
3. What are the difficulties faced by person with visual impairment? 
III. Answer the following question in 150—200 words 
1. What are the causes of intellectual disability? 
 
4.3.1 Types of Disorder 
Mental disorders - A mental disorder, also called a mental illness or psychiatric disorder, is a 
behavioural  or  mental  pattern  that  causes  significant  distress  or  impairment  of  personal 
functioning.  Such  features  may  be  persistent,  relapsing  and  remitting,  or  occur  as  a  single 
episode.  Many  disorders  have  been  described,  with  signs  and  symptoms  that  vary  widely 
between   specific   disorders.   Such   disorders   may   be   diagnosed   by   a   mental   health 

 [140] 
professional.   Some   commonly   occurring   disorders   include   ADHD,   ASD,   Depression, 
Dementia, Bipolar, Schizophrenia 
Genetic  disorders  - A  genetic  disorder  is  a  health  problem  caused  by  one  or  more 
abnormalities in the genome. It can be caused by a mutation in a single gene (monogenic) or 
multiple  genes  (polygenic)  or  by  a  chromosomal  abnormality.  Down  Syndrome,  Muscular 
Dystrophy, Alzheimer, Dwarfism are some common genetic disorders. 
Sensory  Disorders  - Sensory  processing  is  the  normal  neurological  function  that  all  people 
experience  when  their  brain  processes  sensory  information  from  the  environment  around 
them.   It   is   a   condition   in   which   the   brain   has   trouble   receiving   and   responding   to 
information  that  comes  in  through  the  senses.  When  a  person  has  a  sensory  processing 
disorder,  she/he  usually  has  no  difficulties  receiving  the  information  itself,  but  their  brain 
cannot  effectively  process  certain  sensory  information.  The  disorders  cause  inappropriate 
responses, reactions, or both to sensory information. Some people become oversensitive to 
sensory input. Others may become under- sensitive to sensory input. For example, children 
with a sensory processing disorder may find certain places or people overwhelming. Others 
may lack sensations, causing them to play rough and constantly touch objects. 
Emotional and Behavioural Disorders - refer to a disability classification used in educational 
settings  that  allows  educational   institutions  to  provide  special  education  and   related 
services  to  students  who  have  displayed  poor  social  and/or  academic  progress.  Emotional 
and  Behavioural  Disorders  includes  such  emotional  and  behavioural  disorders  wherein 
children exhibit one or more of these five characteristics: 
 A
n inability to learn that cannot be explained by intellectual, sensory, or health factors. 
 An inability to build or maintain satisfactory interpersonal relationships with peers and 
teachers. 
 Inappropriate types of behavior or feelings under normal circumstances. 
 A general pervasive mood of unhappiness or depression. 
 A tendency to develop physical symptoms or fears associated with personal or school 
problems. 
These  students  need  individualized  behaviour  supports  such  as  a  Behaviour  Intervention 
Plan. For example, Anxiety disorder, ODD, OCD 
4.3.2 Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder (ADHD) 
Attention  Deficit  Hyperactive  Disorder  is  a  neurodevelopmental  type.  It  is  characterized  by 
symptoms such as inattentiveness, hyperactivity and impulsiveness or acting without regard 
to  consequences,  in  a  manner  which  is  not  age-appropriate.  Some  individuals  with  ADHD 

 [141] 
also  display  difficulty  regulating  emotions  or  problems  with  executive  function.  For  a 
diagnosis,  the  symptoms  should  appear  before  a person  is  twelve years  old,  be  present  for 
more than six months, and cause problems in at least two settings (such as school, home, or 
recreational  activities).  Although  it  causes  impairment,  many  people  with  ADHD  can  have 
sustained attention for tasks they find interesting or rewarding (known as hyper focus). The 
symptoms  of  ADHD  usually  improve  with  age,  but  many  adults  who  were  diagnosed  with 
the  condition  at  a  young  age  continue  to  experience  problems  such  as  sleep  and  anxiety 
disorders. 
Common symptoms of ADHD include 

 hyperactivity and impulsiveness 
 having  a  short  attention  span  and  being  unable  to  stick  to  tasks  that  are  tedious  or 
time- consuming 
 inability to control emotions or outbursts 
 constantly fidgeting and being unable to concentrate on tasks 
 excessive talking 
 acting without thinking with little or no sense of danger. 
4.3.3 Sensory Processing Disorder 
Sensory  processing  disorder  is  a  condition  in  which  the  brain  has  trouble  receiving  and 
responding  to  information  that  comes  in  through  the  senses.  The  condition  used  to  be 
called sensory integration dysfunction. Sensory processing problems are usually identified in 
children, but they can also affect adults. 
Symptoms  may  vary  according  to  the  disorder's  type  and  subtype  present.  SPD  can  affect 
one sense or multiple senses 
Signs of over-responsivity include 
 d
islike  of  textures  such  as  those  found  in  fabrics,  foods,  grooming  products  or  other 
materials found in daily living, to which most people would not react, 
 serious  discomfort,  sickness  or  threat  induced  by  normal  sounds,  lights,  movements, 
smells, tastes, or even inner sensations such as heartbeat. 
Signs of under-responsivity include 
 sluggishness and lack of responsiveness 
 sensory  cravings  including  fidgeting,  impulsiveness,  and/or  seeking  or  making  loud, 
disturbing noises 
 sensorimotor   problems,   including   slow   and   uncoordinated   movements   or   poor 
handwriting. 

 [142] 
Sensory discrimination problems include 

 problem  in  recognising  /  interpreting  differences  or  similarities  in  the  qualities  of 
stimuli 
 problem in processing sensations from touch, muscles and joints [proprioception] and 
head movements [vestibular or inner ear sensations]. 
Common Signs are 
 Bumps or pushes others 
 Grasps objects too tightly or uses too much force 
 Frequently drops things or knocks things over 
 Mouths, licks, chews or sucks on non-food items 
 Craves movement For example, likes to spin self around 
 Afraid of heights / swings / slides 
 Has poor balance 
Extension Activity 
Nicknamed  “Water  Baby”  for  being  a  natural  in  water,  Yash  Singh  became  the  first  and 
youngest  Indian  to  win  a  medal  at the  Special  Olympics  World  Summer  Games  2015  in  Los 
Angeles. He won a Bronze in  the 25-metre backstroke swimming event. 
Born  on  November  14,  2001,  Yash  Singh  embarked  on  his  sporting  journey  as  a  9-year-old 
boy,  participating  in  school-level  competitions.  At  11  years,  he  won  a  Bronze  medal  at  SO 
Bharat Delhi Aquatics State Championship  in 2013 and thoroughly impressed the judges by 
his speed. It was a turning point in his life. Being a differently abled athlete did not deter his 
passion  for  swimming.  He  trained  and  practiced  with  great  zeal  and  enthusiasm,  and 
followed a strict regime of diet and training, putting in more hours than his peers. 
Yash’s journey was not an easy path, but he crossed all hurdles to prove to the world that he 
is  no  less  than  his  peers  and  can  even  be  better.  Being  a  visual  learner,  he  takes  time  in 
grasping  and  learning  new  skills.  He  always  inspires  people  around  him.  Being  the  only 
differently abled athlete competing in both mainstream and Special  Olympics competitions 
has boosted his confidence and participating at national and international competitions has 
presented Yash with myriad social and cultural experiences which have enhanced his holistic 
development. 
Sports  taught  Yash  to  be  independent,  never  to  give  up  and  empowered  him  to  become 
self-reliant. He could learn and move forward because of the immense support provided by 
his school, Step by Step School, his coaches and last but not the least his fellow swimmers. 
Since  2016,  Yash  is  in  Canada.  Being  on  the  High  School  Swim  team  and  Special  Olympics 
and  winning  at  various  competitions  at  different  levels  gave  him  confidence  and  respect 

 [143] 
from his fellow team members. He trains regularly at a Swim club and is guided by National 
and  Olympic  level  coaches  including  former  world  record  holder  Annamay  Pierce,  Anna 
Lydall  and  few  other  specialists  to  improve  his  technique  and  performance.  He  has  a 
rigorous  training  schedule,  which  includes  1-2  hours  of  swimming  each  day,  3-4  days  of 
dryland  training,  power  yoga  and  playing  basketball  for  overall  fitness.  He  is  on  a  high 
protein and low carb diet. His regular day begins at 5:30 am with dryland exercises, followed 
by school, then swimming and ends at around 11 pm. 
Yash also played on  his school’s Cricket and Bowling Team. In 2017,  his school cricket team 
was awarded the Mayor’s School Cricket Excellence Award. He also participated in the Track 
and Field events. 
Sports has played an important role in his healthy growth and overall development. He has 
grown into a well-rounded young man with strong character, self-discipline and high values. 
He greatly benefitted from the conducive and inclusive environment provided by his school, 
here and in India. He now wants to explore avenues to learn new skills. His first step in this 
direction started with being a Volunteer at a Community library and he has not looked back 
since then. The dedication and sincerity of his work has earned kudos from his colleagues. 
Presently,   Yash   has   graduated   with   majors   in   Hospitality   and   Tourism.   Apart   from 
representing his country at international competitions, Yash wants to pursue a career in the 
Hospitality industry and lead a successful and an independent life. He is an inspirational role 
model for inclusion. 
In  his  words,  “Pursuing  swimming  helps  me  to  achieve  my  dreams  by  focussing  on  my 
strengths.” 
Read  the  profile  of  one  of  an  Indian  athlete to  win  a  Bronze  Medal  in  the  Special  Olympics 
World   Summer   Games   2015   in   Los   Angeles..   Get   into   groups   and   discuss   his/her 
achievements. 
What do you think motivated him/her? Are there any messages in his/her story that inspire 
you? 
4.3.4 Oppositional Defiant Disorder 
Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD) is a behaviour disorder mostly diagnosed in childhood. 
Children with ODD are uncooperative, defiant, and hostile toward peers, parents, teachers, 
and other authority figures. They are more troubling to others than they are to themselves. 
Children with anxiety issues and ADHD are more likely to have ODD. 
ODD can vary in severity: 
 Mild. Symptoms occur only in one setting, such as only at home, school, work or with 
peers. 

 [144] 
 Moderate. Some symptoms occur in at least two settings. 
 Severe. Some symptoms occur in three or more settings. 
Symptoms of ODD 
Angry and irritable mood. 
 often and easily loses temper 
 is frequently touchy and easily annoyed by others 
 is often angry and resentful 
Argumentative and defiant behaviour. 
 often argues with adults or people in authority 
 often actively defies or refuses to comply with adults' requests or rules 
 often deliberately annoys or upsets people 
 often blames others for his or her mistakes or misbehaviour 
Vindictiveness. 
 is often spiteful or vindictive 
 has shown spiteful or vindictive behaviour at least twice in the past six months 
Children  and  teenagers  with  oppositional  defiant  disorder  may  have  trouble  at  home  with 
parents  and  siblings,  in  school  with  teachers,  and  at  work  with  supervisors  and  other 
authority figures. 
Children with ODD may struggle to make and keep friends and relationships. ODD may lead 
to problems such as: 
 poor school and work performance 
 antisocial behaviour 
 impulse control problems 
 substance use disorder 
 suicide 
4.3.5 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 
Obsessive  Compulsive  Disorder  (OCD)  is  a  anxiety  disorder  where  people  feel  the  need  to 
check  things  repeatedly,  perform  certain  routines  repeatedly  (called  "rituals"),  or  have 
certain  thoughts  repeatedly  (called  "obsessions").  They  are  unable  to  control  either  the 
thoughts  or  the  activities  for  more  than  a  short  period  of  time.  Common  activities  include 
hand washing, counting of objects, and checking to see if a door is locked, putting things in 

 [145] 
certain  order,  checking  that  they  have  completed  some  action,  usually  checking  a  certain 
number  of  times.  Obsessions  are  repeated,  persistent  and  unwanted  thoughts,  urges  or 
images  that  are  intrusive  and  cause  distress  or  anxiety.  As  a  result,  the  person  may  try  to 
ignore  them  or  get  rid  of  them  by  performing  a  compulsive  behaviour  or  ritual.  These 
obsessions typically intrude when the person is trying to think of or doing other things. OCD 
usually begins in the teens or young adult years, but it can start in childhood too. Symptoms 
usually begin gradually and tend to vary in severity throughout life. The types of obsessions 
and compulsions you experience can also change over time. 
Symptoms  generally  worsen  when  the  person  experiences  greater  stress.  OCD,  usually 
considered  a  lifelong  disorder,  can  have  mild  to  moderate  symptoms  or  be  so  severe  and 
time- consuming that it becomes disabling. 
Obsessions often have themes such as: 
 F
ear of contamination or dirt 
 Doubting and having difficulty tolerating uncertainty 
 Needing things orderly and symmetrical 
 Aggressive or horrific thoughts about losing control and harming yourself or others 
 Unwanted  thoughts,  including  aggression,  or  sexual  or  religious  subjects  As  with 
obsessions, compulsions typically have themes, such as: 
 Washing and cleaning 
 Checking 
 Counting 
 Orderliness 
 Following a strict routine 
 
I. Tick the correct options. 
1. What type of disorder is ADHD? 
 (a) Mental Disorder 
 (b)     Emotional Disorder 
 (c) Behavioural Disorder 
 (d)     Genetic Disorder 
2. Putting things in certain order is a sign of 
 (a) OCD 

 [146] 
 (b) ODD 
 (c) ASD 
 (d)     SPD 
3. A disorder that may also be categorised as an intellectual disability is 
 (a) Autism 
 (b)     Cerebral palsy 
 (c) Down Syndrome 
 (d)     ADHD 
4. World Autism day is celebrated on 
 (a) 2nd April 
 (b)     29th August 
 (c) 21st June 
 (d)     3rd December 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
 1. Write a short note on Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder. 
 2. List the signs and symptoms of Oppositional Defiant Disorder. 
 3. What do you know about Sensory Processing Disorder? 
III. Answer the following question in 150—200 words 
 1. What are the characteristics of Autism spectrum disorder? 
 
4.4.1 Disability Etiquette 
Disability Etiquette is a set of guidelines dealing specifically with how to approach a person 
with  a  disability.  Disability  etiquette  refers  to  communicating  and  interacting  respectfully 
and courteously with people who have disabilities. 
Positive  and  Energetic  Attitude –  One  should  approach  a  person  with  special  needs  with 
positive energy and attitude. Approach should be warm and  friendly. One should not show 
sympathy for, or, even in certain cases, fear of the person. 

 [147] 
 
Picture Source
6
 
Communication - Communication should be two way – speaking to the person directly, and 
not to the person accompanying her/him. Establish a rapport with her/him. If necessary, use 
a  communication  aid  such  as  a  communication  book  or  communication  device,  if  required. 
Keep your tone low. Communicate with the individual slowly and clearly. Give them time to 
respond.  While  writing,  or  talking  to  or  about  a  person  with  a  disability,  use  “people  first” 
language.  Refer  to  her/him  as  a  person  with  disability  and  not  as  “the  disabled”  or  “the 
handicapped.” Avoid referring to people by their disability. For example, do not say, “She is 
an epileptic.” Instead, say, “She has epilepsy.” Do not say “wheelchair-bound” or “confined 
to  a  wheelchair.”  Most  wheelchair  users  perceive  their  wheelchair  as  liberating,  not 
confining.  Do  say,  “She  uses  a  wheelchair.”  Do  not  use  negative,  demeaning,  and  outdated 
terms  such  as  “cripple,”  “deaf  and  dumb,”  or  “retarded.”  Be  aware  that  many  people  with 
disabilities  do  not  wish  to  be  referred  to  euphemistically.  So,  avoid  using  terms  such  as 
“physically  challenged,”  or  “differently  abled.”  Also,  avoid  referring  to  an  individual  with  a 
disability as someone who is “suffering from Cerebral Palsy or Parkinson’s.” 
Social  Etiquette –  Make  surroundings  disabled-friendly  and  comfortable  for  people  with 
special needs. Do not make assumptions about what they can or cannot do. The impact of a 
specific  disability  can  vary  widely  from  person  to  person,  so  help  only  if  it  appears  to  be 
needed. Just because someone has a disability, don’t assume she needs help. If the setting is 
accessible, people with disabilities can usually get around  fine. Adults with disabilities want 

 [148] 
to be treated as independent people. Offer assistance only if the person appears to need it. 
A  person  with  a  disability  will  oftentimes  communicate  when  she  needs  help.  And  if  she 
does want help, ask how before you act. Acknowledge and respect the individual’s ability to 
make decisions and judgments on their own behalf. Never physically or verbally bully them. 
Never  play  with  their  equipment.  Ask  them  before  offering  any  help.  Only  ask  question 
about their disability if you know the person. Develop a culture of inclusion in surroundings. 
Physical  Etiquette -  The  height  difference  between  a  person  in  a  wheelchair  and  an  able-
bodied  person  can  create  an  unspoken  feeling  of  superiority  and  inferiority.  To  be  safe,  sit 
or  stand  at  eye-level  with  the  person  who  has  a  disability  when  it  is  appropriate  and 
possible.  Finding  a  table  to  sit  at  is  a  great  option  because  it  can  eliminate  any  visible 
differences, such as a wheelchair. 
Sitting in a chair (with or without a table) is also better than kneeling, which may cause the 
person  in  a  wheelchair  to  feel  like  a  child.  Make  eye  contact;  never  avoid  someone  with  a 
disability.  Some  people  with  disabilities  depend  on  their  arms  for  balance.  Grabbing  them, 
even  if  your  intention  is  to  assist,  could  knock  them  off  balance.  Avoid  patting  a  person  on 
the  head  or  touching  his  wheelchair,  or  cane.  People  with  disabilities  consider  their 
equipment part of their personal space. 
 
I. Tick the correct option 
1. You  have  a  new  classmate  who  has  a  disability  and  has  an  interpreter  as  She/He  has 
just joined your school. She/He speaks to you. You will 
 i. communicate with the interpreter 
 ii. stare between the interpreter and your classmate 
 iii. speak directly to your classmate 
 iv. look at neither your classmate nor the interpreter. 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
1. What  is  the  role  of  positive  and  energetic  attitude  in  dealing  with  person  with 
Disability? 
2. How can you make a person with disability feel comfortable? 
3. Disability  etiquettes  has  a  big  role  to  give  a  sense  of  acceptance  to  person  with 
disability. Explain how? 
III. Answer the following question in 150—200 words 
1. Explain  what  ettiquette  should  one  keep  in  mind  while  communicating  with  a  person 
with special needs? 
  

 [149] 
4.5.1 Advantages of Physical Activities for CWSN 
It  is  no  secret  that  physical  activities  are  an  important  aspect  of  a  healthy  lifestyle  and  can 
provide  significant  benefits  for  children  in  all  developmental  stages.  Children  with  special 
needs  have  less  opportunities  to  be  less  physically  active  and,  therefore,  are  at  higher  risk 
for  complications  associated  with  inactivity.  The  benefits  of  regular  physical  activity  for 
children   with   special   needs   can   range   from   physical,   emotional   and   social.   CWSN 
demonstrate   strength   gains,   increased   flexibility,   improved   bone   health,   and   better 
endurance  and  cardiovascular  fitness  as  a  result  of  regular  physical  activity.  In  the  case  of 
children   with   movement   disabilities,   physical   activity   is   important   in   maintenance   of 
mobility  throughout  the  aging  process.  With  enhanced  physical  health,  children  are  better 
able  to  fight  problems  such  as  obesity  and  the  associated  health  complications  that  may 
follow. Physical activity can also improve general mood and wellness. Regular fitness can be 
linked  to  improved  self-esteem,  social  awareness,  and  self-  confidence,  which  aid  in 
empowering the lives of children with special needs. 
1. Physical  benefits –  Scientific  studies  into  disability  groups  have  demonstrated  that 
participation  in  physical  activity  and  sport  leads  to  improved  levels  of  well-being  and 
physical  health.  Children  with  intellectual  disabilities  may  have  additional  physical 
disabilities  resulting  in  below  age-level  performance  in  typical  motor  skills.  Regular 
involvement  in  physical  education  and  sport  can  help  them  to  develop  their  gross 
motor  and  fine  motor  skills  which  may  improve  their  overall  performance.  When 
encouraged to participate in a regular fitness routine, many CWSN show improvement 
in everything from their hand-eye coordination and flexibility, to their muscle strength, 
endurance,  and  even  cardiovascular  efficiency.  These  are  all  simply  the  natural 
benefits  of  exercise.  This  development  of  better  motor  skills  and  enhanced  physical 
health helps individuals to fight back against problems such as obesity, and the health 
complications that follow. 
2. Mode  of  Recreation  and  Fun  -- CWSN  frequently  miss  out  on  social  activities, 
recreation and fun. Participation in extracurricular and sports activities can help them 
overcome   this   obstacle,   providing   them   with   the   ability   to   engage   in   social 
interactions, make friends and initiate social skills. 
3. Improved Emotional Health -- Including physical activity in a healthy lifestyle is proven 
to  decrease  rates  of  depression.  CWSN  often  tend  to  have  more  emotional  problems 
like  depression.  Participating  in  regular  exercise  can  be  a  life-changing  benefit  by 
improving  mental  health  and  wellbeing.  Physical  activity  can  also  improve  general 
mood and wellness, which aid in empowering the lives of children with special needs. 

 [150] 
4. Channelizing   the   Surplus   Energy   – Children   with   disabilities   like   ADHD   display 
hyperactivity   that,   if   appropriately   directed,   can   bear   positive   results   regarding 
cognitive benefits and constructive behaviour. 
5. Psychological  benefits –Regular  participation  in  sports  and  physical  activities  is  not 
just beneficial for the body, it is beneficial for the mind, too. Physical activity improves 
general mood and wellness in CWSN by improving their self-esteem, social awareness, 
and  self-  confidence,  all  of  which  are  factors  essential  for  empowering  their  lives.  On 
the  one  hand  the  physical  outlet  provided  by  sports  and  physical  activity  reduces 
anxiety,  stress  and  depression,  and  on  the  other,  interaction  and  involvement  with 
other  students  gives  children  a  sense  of  accomplishment  and  confidence.  For  CWSN, 
developing  a  sense  of  self-esteem  is  particularly  important,  as  they  may  often  feel 
isolated and removed from the group. 
6. Healthy lifestyle – CWSN are about twice as likely as other children to  be overweight 
or obese often due to the  related greater likelihood of  being sedentary. As a result of 
their disability, their levels of participation in sports and physical activity is much lower 
than  their  peers.  It  is  imperative  that  these  children,  as  much  or  more,  than  other 
students  must  learn  what  about  the  steps  to  leading  a  healthy  lifestyle,  within  the 
context of the abilities and limitations of their respective conditions. 
7. Behavioural  Benefits  – The  energetic  nature  of  physical  education  leads  to  cognitive 
improvements in CWSN, allowing them to develop skills that they may not develop in a 
traditional  classroom setting. Sports and Games are a structured activity with a set of 
rules  and  organisation.  They  help  the  chid  learn  to  practice  self-regulation  and 
enhance their decision- making skills. In addition, CWSN can learn to  focus on specific 
goals, and work on their verbal communication by interacting with peers on the sports 
field.  Sports  and  Physical  education  teach  children  a  range  of  skills  that  including 
teamwork, problem solving abilities, increased attention span, and focus on task-based 
behaviour.  Eventually,  these  skills  can  transfer  into  other  classroom  settings  too,  so 
that  CWSN  have  a  greater  ability  to  learn  and  engage  with  their  peers  outside  of 
physical education. 
8. Increased Independence – Participation in Physical Education and Sports is a mode to 
transit  towards  greater  independence  due  to  improved  daily  life  skills.  For  a  person 
with  a  disability,  an  increase  in  physical  activity  can  lead  to  more  independence  and 
freedom.  Increased  physical  strength  and  energy  that  come  from  regular  exercise 
allows persons with disability to do more daily tasks without assistance. 
 
 

 [151] 
4.6.1 Strategies to Make Physical Activities Accessible for CWSN 
Participation in physical activity is beneficial for all children, including those with disabilities. 
In   fact,   participation   of   children   with   disabilities   in   sports   and   recreational   activities 
promotes inclusion, minimizes deconditioning, optimizes physical functioning, and enhances 
overall  well-  being.  Despite  these  benefits,  children  with  disabilities  are  more  restricted  in 
their participation, have lower levels of fitness, and have higher  levels of obesity than their 
peers without disabilities. Well-informed decisions regarding each child's participation must 
consider certain well-d
    evised strategies. 
Communication –    Advance    information    about 
activity,  space,  resource  person  or  any  change  in 
activity should be communicated clearly. A variety of 
different   instructional   strategies   such   as   verbal, 
visual    and    peer    teaching    should    be    used    for 
performing various types of physical activities so that 
children  get  opportunity  to  participate  in  physical 
activity. The teacher could  use visuals or social story 
about   the   activity.   Give   positive,   corrective   or 
specific  feedback.  As  per  the  ability  of  the  child, 
specific  instruction  must  be  provided  in  simple  words  and  sentences.  The  tone  should  be 
low  and  one  instruction  should  be  given  at  a  time.  If  necessary,  a  communication  board  or 
communication book could be used. 
Space  – For  CWSN,  space  should  be  approachable  for 
people having physical disability. The area for the physical 
activity  should  be  limited.  Space  for  activities  should  be 
disturbance   free   (noise,   heat,   cold,   texture   of   floor, 
audience  etc.)  It  is  always  better  to  start  with  indoor 
space.  Boundaries  should  be  demarked  clearly  as  starting 
point, finishing point, sitting area. In case of children who 
have autism, they must be provided specific area because 
they  may  need  some  time  to  relax.  Once  behaviours, 
discipline,  understanding  of  instructions  are  clear  then  one  can  transit  towards  outdoor 
space also. It does not mean that one is not allowed to go to outdoor sports. 
Equipment -- A lack of appropriate equipment, coupled with a lack of professionals trained 
to   support   physical   activity   among   children   and   youth   with   different   ability   levels, 
discourages   participation.   There   are   a   growing   number   of   disabled   people   who   are 
interested in recreation and sport activities. In recent years several modified devices are on 
offer for adapted sports. There are many examples of simple and sophisticated equipment, 

 [152] 
including  computerized  devices  like  wheelchairs  for  recreation  and  sport  activities.  There 
are sport competitions involving four groups of disabled sportspersons, namely 1) the deaf, 
2)  people  with  physical  disability,  3)  people  with  intellectual  (mental)  disability,  4)  people 
supported by specially designed high level engineering equipment. All of them can use many 
kinds of equipment and facilities. 
 
 

 [153] 
 
Graded Activities– During initial stage activities  should  be  simple  and  the  activity should 
be  based  on  a  single  action.  There  should  be  a  gradual  move  from  non-locomotor  to  locomotor  to 
manipulated  activities.  For  these  activities,  the  level  of  assistance  should  be  physical,  verbal  and 
independent.  CWSN  need  help  children  in  learning  a  fundamental  motor  skill.  It  will  need  to  be 
practised with the students so they are able to see visualize it through the teacher’s body action or 
one can use 
videos.  As  they  watch  the  video,  words  or  phrases  that  highlight  the  important  part  on 
which the demonstration is focusing must be used. They could also be asked to demonstrate 
the  skill  to  ensure  the  instructions  have  been  understood  before  commencing  practise  and 
they  must  start  practice  immediately  after  viewing  a  demonstration.  The  activity  must  be 
practised with progressive count, or even performed dramatically with rhymes or songs with 
voice modulation so they enjoy the activities. 
Do you know? 
Locomotor skills include running, jumping, hopping, galloping, rolling, leaping and dodging, 
horizontal jump, slide. 
Manipulative skills are throwing, catching, kicking, striking and trapping, dribble, overhand 
throw, and underhand roll 
Stability skills are balance, twisting, turning and bending 
 

 [154] 
 
Social strategies - Allow the child to choose a sport she/he enjoys. It’s easier for children to 
be  motivated  when  they  enjoy  the  activity.  At  first,  encourage  the  child  with  special  needs 
to watch others. Let the child see people having fun as they play. Then, start with individual 
training,  transfer  to  small  group  with  supervision  and  reminder.  Be  a  mediator  to  interact 
with  other  members  of  group.  Keep  individual  check  on  each  person  participation  and 
motivate  them  with  reminder  whenever  they  get  distraction.  End  the  lesson  with  positive 
feedback and each person greet with other before the session and after the sessions. 
Psychological  strategies  – Because  of  previous  exclusion  or  limited  access,  children  with 
disabilities need a lot of motivation to participate in physical activity. It’s all about the cycle 
of  conditioning:  active  kids  who  stay  active  grow  stronger  and  more  physically  literate  as 
they  age.  The  cycle  of  deconditioning  works  the  same  way:  for  children  who  don’t 
participate,  the  less  they  do,  the  less they’re  able  to  do.  In  fact,  “Psychological  barriers  are 
the most influential. 
Changing attitudes is the key to increasing participation...” These barriers include attitudes, 
opinions and perceptions preventing participation in sport. 
 Personal attitudes of persons with disability 
 Attitudes of non-disabled people 
All   individuals   benefit   from   regular   physical   activity   and   children   with   special   needs 
especially gain from these physical, mental and social benefits of being active. Once children 
see  improvements  in  muscle  strength,  coordination,  and  flexibility  and  experience  better 
balance, motor skills and body awareness, they will have positive changes towards sports. It 
has been found that children with a disability choose to play sport for a number of reasons 
including 
 

 [155] 
 to improve and learn new skills, 
 to have fun, 
 stay fit 
 be physically challenged 
While children often choose easier tasks to obtain rewards, doing this decreases the child’s 
enjoyment  of  and  intrinsic  motivation  for  the  activity.  So,  the  selection  of  a  challenging 
activity  may  be  a  strong  influence  in  children’s  participation  in  sport.  However,  it  may  be 
possible that if the challenge becomes too great, the intrinsic motivation to participate may 
decrease. Because the level of challenge frequently increases more quickly for the disabled 
it  is  likely  that  this  is  a  strong  factor  in  participation.  Therefore,  it  is  better  to  let  the  child 
initially participate with her/his own disability group. Coaches are also often afraid to ‘push’ 
individuals  with  a  disability  too  far  and  doing  ‘harm’  to  the  individuals.  In  contrast  to 
intrinsic  motivation,  extrinsic  motivation  involves  motivators  from  the  environment  (e.g. 
friends, parents and coaches). 
Certainly  amongst  children  it  can  be  expected  that  a  huge  part  of  their  reasoning  for 
participation  in  sport  is  to  make  friends.  Children  with  strong  peer  relationships  are  more 
self-motivated in sport and, in addition, enjoy themselves more. It has also been found that 
a  greater  competence  in  sport  coincided  with  stronger  peer  relationships.  A  PE  teacher  in 
UK  revealed  that  her  pupils  “actively  encourage  and  support  the  pupils  with  disabilities”  in 
sport and that those pupils “grow in  confidence  as a result of their involvement”. Disability 
in sport is, evidently, becoming more accepted than it ever has been. 
 
I. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. How wll you communicate with a classmate suffering from cognitive disability? 
2. In what ways does participation in sports and games benefit a person with disability? 
II. Answer the following question in 150-200 words. 
1. How will you motivate a classmate with disability to take part in games and sports? 
Art Inclusion 
Working in groups, design a booklet for your school library on Disability Etiquette. 
1. Think of the etiquettes you feel need to be included. 
2. Draw Graphics to accompany the etiquettes. 
3. Laminate the pages and get your book spiral-bound. 
  

 [156] 
References : 
1
 THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, 2016. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from MINISTRY 
OF LAW AND JUSTICE: http://legislative.gov.in/actsofparliamentfromtheyear/rights-persons 
disabilities-act-2016 
2
 International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, 
from World Health Organization: https://www.who.int/standards/classifications/international-
classification-of-functioning-disability-and-health 
3
 FACTS ABOUT DOWN'S SYNDROME. (2020, January). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://www.magzter.com/article/Business/UNIQUE-TIMES/FACTS-ABOUT-DOWNS-SYNDROME   
4
 PAREEK, S. (2014, 08 11). The Man Who Beat Polio To Grab A Silver Medal At The Commonwealth 
Games 2014. Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://www.thebetterindia.com/13206/rahelu/ 
5
 Astejada, M. (2007). Muscular Dystrophy. Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/neuroscience/muscular-dystrophy   
6
 Disability Etiquette. (2020, 10 6). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Ohio university: 
https://u.osu.edu/tops/2020/10/06/disability-etiquette/ 
 
 
 
 
Suggested Reading : 
 (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Adapted Physical Education National Standards: 
https://apens.org/ 
 WORLD REPORT ON DISABILITY. (2011). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://www.who.int/disabilities/world_report/2011/report.pdf 
 American Association Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 
25, 2020, from https://www.aaidd.org/intellectual-disability 
 Auxter, D. (2010). Principles and methods of Adapted Physical Education and 
Recreation. New York: McGraw-Hill. 
 Kranowitz, C., & Miller, L. J. (2006). The Out-of-Sync Child: Recognizing and Coping with 
Sensory Processing Disorder. USA: Penguin . 
 
 
 
 

 [157] 
CHAPTER-V: CHILDREN AND WOMEN IN SPORTS 
Contents 
• Motor development and factors affecting it. 
• Exercise guidelines at different stages of growth and development. 
• Common   postural   deformities-knock   knees,   flat   foot,   round   shoulders,   Lordosis, 
Kyphosis, Scoliosis and bow legs and their respective corrective measures. 
• Sports participation of women in India. 
• Special consideration (menarche and menstrual dysfunction) 
• Female athlete triad (osteoporosis, amenorrhea, eating disorders) 
Learning outcomes 
At the end of the chapter, you will be able to: 
 understand the concept of motor development and factors affecting it. 
 discuss exercise guidelines for different stages of growth and development. 
 classify common postural deformities and identify corrective measures. 
 recognize the role and importance of sports participation of women in India. 
 identify special consideration relate to menarche and menstrual dysfunction. 
 express female athlete triad according to eating disorders. 
Discussion 
Given below is a list of some common postural deformities children may suffer from. What 
do  you  know  about  them?  Complete  the  first  two  columns  of  the  KWL  Chart  given  below. 
Fill in the last column after completing your research by reading more about them. 
Word What I Know What I Want to Know What I Learned 
Knock knees    
Flat foot    
Round shoulders    
Lordosis    
Kyphosis    
Scoliosis    
Bow legs    

 [158] 
5.1.1  Motor Development 
Before  we  start  discussion  on  the  term  Motor  Development,  let  us  start  with  the  basic 
understanding  about  it.  The  word Motor, here,  refers  to movement  of  human  body, 
whereas the word Development refers to growth and changes that occur as life progresses. 
Such changes may be result of age or experience. Thus, we can say that motor development 
refers  to  the  development  of  a  child’s  bones,  muscles  and  ability  to  move  around  and 
manipulate her or his environment. 
Motor  Development  refers  to  “the  changes  in  motor  behaviour  over  the  lifespan  and  the 
processes  which  underlie  these  changes”  Clark,  J.  E.&  Whitall,  J.  (1989).  What  is  motor 
development? The lessons of history. Quest, 41, 183-202. 
Human  motor  development  is  “the  study  of  the  changes  in  human  motor  behaviour  over 
the  lifespan,  the  processes  that  underlie  these  changes,  and  the  factors  that  affect  them.” 
Payne,  V.  G.,  &  Isaacs,  L.  D.  (2012). Human  Motor  Development:  A  Lifespan  Approach. 
McGraw Hill. 
“Motor development is the continuous change in motor behaviour throughout the life cycle, 
brought about by interaction among the requirements of the movement task, the biology of 
the  individual,  and  the  conditions  of  the  environment.”  David  L.  Gallahue,  J.  C.  (2012). 
Understanding  Motor  Development:  Infants,  Children,  Adolescents,  Adults.  McGraw-Hill 
Education. 
5.1.2  Domains of Motor Development 
There are four domains of motor development 
 
Physical 
 
Cognitive 
 
Motor 
Developme
Psychomotor 
 
Affective 
 

 [159] 
Cognitive domain: It is concerned with intellectual development of a child. We can take the 
example of class 4 boy who is sitting in the class room. We can examine his cognitive aspects 
by  asking  history  question  for  remembering,  maths question  for  analytical  abilities,  science 
question for application etc. 
Affective domain: It is primarily  concerned with  emotional and social aspect of a child. We 
can  understand  this  domain  by  asking  questions  like  how  the  child  feels  while  interacting 
with her/his classmates, teachers etc. 
Psychomotor  domain: It  is  concerned  with  body  movements  and  factors  that  affect 
movements.   We   can   examine   the   child’s   psychomotor   domain   by   examining   her/his 
handwriting, movements of running, throwing, catching, jumping etc. 
Physical domain: It is concerned with body changes take place during the life span. We can 
examine physical domain by testing fitness, height, weight, fat etc. 
An  example  which  can  demonstrate  all  four  domains  of  motor  development  is  a  man 
crossing the road. He must have knowledge  of  road safety rules, be fit enough to cross the 
road,  have movements that are well-coordinated and a positive attitude towards observing 
the rules of the road. 
Motor  development  should  be  organized  and  systematic.  To  learn  to  throw  a  ball,  the 
process  will  be  to  first  hold  the  ball,  then  release  the  ball,  next  drop  the  ball,  bounce  the 
ball,  roll  the  ball,  and  finally  throw  the  ball  with  both  hands,  with  one  hand  and  later 
overarm or underarm throw etc. 
Motor development can  be assessed by the product or process. In running a race, time is a 
product and running is a process, in shotput distance is a product and putting the shot is the 
process. 
We can classify Motor Movements under the following heads. 
 
5.1.3  Gross and Fine Motor Skills 
On  the  basis  of  muscular  development,  Motor  development  can  be  divided  into  two  major 
areas: gross motor skills and fine motor skills. 
• Gross Motor 
Skill 
• Fine Motor 
Skill 
Muscular 
Aspect 
• Open Motor 
Skill 
• Closed Motor 
Skill 
Environmental 
Aspect 
• Stability Skill 
• Locomotor 
Skill 
• Manipulative 
Skill 
Functional 
Aspect 
• Discrete 
Motor Skill 
• Serial Motor 
Skill 
• Continuous 
Motor  Skill 
Temporal 
Aspect 

 [160] 
Gross  motor  skills include  activities  that  involve moving  major  areas  of  the  body. Activities 
like running, jumping, climbing, throwing, standing, and sitting are examples of gross motor 
skills. 
Fine  motor  skills require  more  precision  and  involve  hand  and  eye  coordination.  These 
skills,  which  seem  simple  to  adults,  require  concentration  for  children  to  develop  them.  A 
snooker shot is an example of fine motor skill. 
Extension Activity 
Working in pairs, list the following activities into Gross and Fine Motor Skills. 
 Climbing up, down, over, under and through  things 
 Completing shape puzzles 
 Cutting shapes with scissors 
 Dumping and filling a bucket 
 Jumping 
 Making shapes with play dough 
 Running 
 Stacking  blocks 
 Stringing  beads 
 Throwing and catching 
5.1.4  Open and Closed Motor Skills 
Sports  skills  can  be  classified  according  to  how  much  they  are  affected  by  the  sporting 
environment. Environmental stimuli include 
Ot
her people – for example, a netballer reacting to their own and the other team's players  
Terrain/surface – for example, a cross-country runner running on muddy and dry ground  
Weather – for example, a golfer playing on a windy day 
Situation – for example, the venue and crowd 
Performers need to have a good perception of these stimuli to adapt their skills to best suit 
the environment. These skills may be divided into Open and Closed Skills. 
Open skills: An open motor skill is a skill performed in an unstable environment, where the 
start point is determined  by the environment. Team-based sports such as Netball, Football, 
and  Hockey  involve  open  skills  where  the  environment  is  continually  changing,  and  so 
movements have to be continually adapted. 
Closed  skills:  A  closed  motor  skill  is  a  skill  which  is  performed  in  a  stationary  environment, 
where the performer chooses when to start the skill. These skills take place in a stable, non-

 [161] 
team based, predictable environment, and the performer knows what to do and when. For 
example, a free throw in Basketball and serving in Squash or Tennis. 
5.1.5  Stability, Locomotor and Manipulative Skills 
Fundamental  movement  skills  provide  a  foundation  for  many  physical  activities  including 
play,  games,  outdoor  recreation  and  sports.  Having  these  skills  is  an  essential  part  of 
enjoyable participation and a lifelong interest in an active lifestyle. Fundamental movement 
skills include stability, locomotive, and manipulative or object control and skills. 
Stability  skills involve  the  body  balancing  either  in  one  place  (static)  or  while  in  motion 
(dynamic).  Stability  skills  in  this  resource  include  landing,  balance  (static  and  dynamic)  and 
rotation. 
Locomotor  Skills involve  the  body  moving  in  any  direction  from  one  point  to  another. 
Locomotor skills include walking, running, dodging, jumping, hopping and skipping. 
Manipulative  skills involve  handling  and  controlling  objects  with  the  hand,  the  foot  or  an 
implement  (stick,  bat  or  racquet).  Manipulative  skills  in  this  resource  include  throwing  and 
catching, striking with the hands, feet and an implement (e.g. kicking, volleying, batting and 
dribbling). 
5.1.6  Discrete, Serial and Continuous Motor Skills 
The Temporal Aspect refers to the organisation of the motor skill in time, 
Discrete skills are brief, well-defined actions that have a clear beginning and end. They are 
single, specific skills, which make up the actions involved in a variety of sports such as hitting 
and throwing. For example, a penalty flick in Hockey. 
Serial  Skills are  a  group  of  discrete  skills  strung  together  to  make  a  new  and  complex 
movement. For example, the sequence of skills for the triple jump. 
 
Continuous skills have no obvious beginning or end. The end of  one cycle of movements is 
the beginning of the next, and the skill is repeated like a cycle. These skills could be stopped 
at  any  moment  during  the  performance  of  the  skill.  For  example,  Swimming,  Running, 
Cycling. 

 [162] 
Extension Activity 
The  physical  abilities  of  a  one-year-old  are  much  different  than  the  abilities  of  a  five-year-
old. Complete the table listing the abilities of both. 
 One-year-old Five-year-old 
Movement   
Playing   
   
   
 
5.1.7  Factors that Affect Motor Development 
 
Human  beings  are  different  from   others  in  terms  of  personality,  appearance,  motor 
movements etc. As a result, the rate and level of motor development also varies. Therefore, 
to understand the stages of Motor development it is essential we discuss factors that affect 
it. The primary factors affecting Motor development are individual ability, environment and 
the given task. 
Do you know 
Developmental  milestones are  behaviours  or  physical  skills  seen  in  infants  and  children as 
they  grow  and  develop.  Rolling  over,  crawling,  walking,  and  talking  are  all  considered 
Unhealthy 
lifestyle of 
mother 
Personal 
Factors 
Genetic 
factors 
Factors affecting 
Motor 
Development 
Early Stages 
of 
Development 
Learning 
Psychological 
Factors 

 [163] 
milestones.  The  milestones  are  different  for  each  age  range.  There  is  a  normal  range  in 
which a child may reach each milestone. 
Delayed  milestones,  also  called developmental  delays,  describes the  condition  where  a 
child does not reach one of these stages at the expected age. 
 
Let us study factors affecting Motor development in detail. 
1. Lifestyle  of  mother:  An  individual’s  growth  and  development  journey  starts  in  the 
mother’s  womb  as  a  zygote.  For  the  next  nine  months  of  foetal  period  the  zygote 
develops  extremities,  teeth,  nose,  eyes,  ears,  central  nerve  system  etc.  During  this 
period  the  baby  is  totally  dependent  on  the  mother.  As  a  result,  the  mother  lifestyle 
affects   the   baby.   An   unhealthy   lifestyle   like   imbibing   certain   medicines,   drugs, 
smoking,   alcohol   and   other   unhealthy   food   leads   to   growth   deficiency,   CNS 
dysfunctions,   other   anomalies   and   complications.   Maternal   nutrition   should   be 
balanced and must include all nutrients like protein, calcium, iron-rich foods, vitamins, 
and extra calories as per requirement of the body. 
2. Genetic  factors:  Abnormal  development  can  be  caused  by  gene-based  disorders  or 
chromosomal disorders. Deformities like heart defects, respiratory distress syndrome, 
Musculo-skeletal  deformities  etc.  and  Down  Syndrome,  which  includes  short  stature, 
late  or  no  speech  development,  slow  development  of  fine  motor  skills  etc.  may 
happen due to genetic factors. 
3. Learning:   Learning   is   one   of   the   important   factors   that   affect   growth   and 
development. Learning requires readiness to seek or acquire new information or skills. 
A  child  must  be  physiologically  ready  to  develop  strength,  endurance  and  flexibility 
that  will  help  to  control  the  body,  and  psychologically  ready  to  acquire  skills.  In  other 
words,   the   child   must   be   physically   and   mentally   ready   to   seek   information. 
Motivation   and   timely   reinforcement   promote   learning.   Individual   differences 
including  race,  gender,  culture  and  socioeconomic  status  may  affect  growth  and 
development process. 
4. Psychological Factors: Self-esteem plays an important role in growth and development 
of the individual. An individual with high self-esteem in the physical arena is not likely 
to  give  up  physical  activity.  It  motivates  her/him  to  join  and  sustain  the  particular 
activity. Other factors including self-confidence, self-worth, self-image, emotions, also 
play a vital role in growth and development. 
5. Early  Stages: Portents  and  teaches  should  work  on  a  programme  where  stimulation 
and    deprivation    are    given    systematically.    While    the    more    stimulation    and 
opportunities  a  child  is  provided  in  order  to  develop  both  gross  and  fine  motor  skills, 
the  faster  her/his  capacity  increases.  For  instance,  if  a  child  is  encouraged  to  play 
outside  on  park  equipment  or  other  areas  where  she/he  can  climb,  run,  and  play, 

 [164] 
her/his  gross  motor  skills  will  develop  quickly. Additionally,  fine  motor  skills  develop 
when children are encouraged to play with their hands, hold and touch smaller items, 
feed  themselves,  and  draw  or  colour. Timely  immunization  also  helps  to  prevent 
disease  from  child  and  would  not  hinder  learning  process. However,  we  must  keep  in 
mind  the  child’s  readiness  to  learn. Now-a-days  parents  provide  stimulation  too  early 
like focus on swimming, reading, writing etc in early stages. This may have an adverse 
effect on the child’s growth and development. 
6. Personal  Factors:  Physical  characteristics,  intelligence,  aptitude,  height,  weight,  age, 
muscle fibres, length of fibres, bone structure, gender, diseases are factors that affect 
motor development. Taking a balanced diet or proper proportion of nutrition in food is 
required   to   promote   motor   development.   Malnutrition   leads   to   disease,   low 
immunity, and adversely affects the child’s health and motor development. Starvation, 
overeating,  eating  disorders  negatively  affect  motor  development  leading  to  obesity, 
diabetes, heart disease etc. Good fitness level leads to good health, better reflexes and 
readiness  of  muscles  to  do  complex  movements. To  keep  body  fit,  children  should  be 
exposed to outdoor activities also. These activities should be planned in such way that 
there  is  focus  on  muscular  aspect  of  movement  for  gross  and  fine  motor  skills 
development. 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. An activity that is NOT an example of gross motor skills is 
 (a) drawing 
 (b)     standing 
 (c) throwing a ball 
 (d)     jumping 
2. An activity that is NOT an example of fine motor skills is 
 (a) using cutlery 
 (b) riding a bike 
 (c) building a toy tower 
 (d)     cutting shapes using scissors 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
1. Define Motor Development. 
2. Briefly describe the domains of motor development. 
3. Describe any one factor that affects motor development. 
4. List down the major factors affecting motor development. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words 
1. Explain factors affecting motor development. 
 

 [165] 
5.2.1  Physical Activity Guidelines at Different Stages of Growth and 
Development 
World  Health  Organisation  (WHO)   has  identified  lack  of  physical  activity,  or   physical 
inactivity,  as  the  fourth  leading  risk  factor  for  global  mortality  (6%  of  deaths  globally). 
Regular  participation  in  physical  activities  and  sports  provides  ample  opportunities  to 
maintain  physical,  mental  and  social  health.  Participation  in  sports  and  physical  activity 
results  in  benefits  like  an  increase  in  self-confidence  and  self-esteem,  a  better  control  over 
emotions,  reduction  in  levels  of  stress,  anxiety  and  depression,  maintenance  of  healthy 
weight  social  interaction  and  achieving  high  performance  in  academics.  Regular  physical 
activities  help  in  not  just  physical,  but  also  social,  emotional  and  mental  growth  and 
development  of  infants,  children,  adolescents  and  adults.  Physical  activities  should  be 
encouraged  among  children  to  ensure  strong  muscles  and  bones.  Children  and  young 
people  should  not  be  allowed  to  sit  for  long  hours  watching  TV,  playing  computer  games 
and travelling by car. 
WHO has developed certain guidelines – Global  Recommendations on Physical Activity for 
Health –  with  the  overall  aim  of  providing  national  and  regional  level  policy  makers  with 
guidance  on  the  frequency,  duration,  intensity,  type  and  total  amount  of  physical  activity 
needed for the prevention of Non-Communicable Diseases or Lifestyle Diseases. 
5.2.2  Children Under 5 Years of Age 
“Achieving  health  for  all  means  doing  what  is  best  for  health  right  from  the  beginning  of 
people’s   lives,”   says   WHO   Director-General   Dr   Tedros   Adhanom   Ghebreyesus.   “Early 
childhood is a period of rapid development and a time when family lifestyle patterns can be 
adapted  to  boost  health  gains.”  Children  under  five  must  spend  less  time  sitting  watching 
screens,  or  restrained  in  prams  and  seats,  get  better  quality  sleep  and  have  more  time  for 
active play if they are to grow up healthy. 
 
Picture Source
1
 

 [166] 
The  following  guidelines  are  recommended  for  healthy  children  aged  Under  5  years, 
irrespective  of  gender,  race,  ethnicity,  cultural  background,  and  the  socio-economic  status 
of the family.
 
These  are  also   relevant  for  children  with   different  abilities.  Children  with  a  medical 
condition  or  disability  should  consult  with  health  professionals  before  undertaking  these 
activities. The goals of these guidelines are to recommend time spent on physical activities, 
and on sleep and sedentary activities to get health benefits. The age group further divided in 
to three group namely Less than 1 year, 1 to 2 years, 3 to 4 years. 
Age Sedentary Behaviour Physical Activity Sleep 
Less than 1 year Not   be   restrained   for 
more  than  1  hour  at  a 
time.  Encourage  reading 
and    storytelling    when 
sedentary.   Screen   time 
is not recommended. 
Physically active 
several  times  a  day 
through     interactive 
floor-based play 
including  30  minutes 
of tummy time. 
14–17hours (0–3 
months   of   age)   or 
12– 16h (4–11 
months   of   age)   of 
good   quality   sleep, 
including naps. 
1-2 years Not  restrained  for  more 
than  1  hour  at  a  time  or 
sit  for  extended  periods 
of  time.  No  screen  time 
for    1-year-olds.   For    2 
years,  sedentary  screen 
time  should  be  no  more 
than  1  hour.  Encourage 
reading and storytelling. 
At  least  180  minutes 
in  a  variety  of  types 
of  physical  activities 
including   moderate- 
to-vigorous-intensity 
physical activity, 
spread throughout 
the day. 
11-14  hours  of  good 
quality sleep, 
including  naps,  with 
regular     sleep     and 
wake-up times. 
3-4 years Not  restrained  for  more 
than  1  hour  at  a  time  or 
sit  for  extended  periods 
of time. Sedentary 
screen   time   should   be 
no   more   than   1   hour; 
less  is  better.  Encourage 
reading and storytelling. 
At  least  180  minutes 
in  a  variety  of  types 
of  physical  activities 
at   any   intensity,   of 
which    at    least    60 
minutes is moderate- 
to  vigorous  intensity 
physical activity, 
spread throughout 
the day. 
10–13h of good 
quality   sleep,   which 
may   include   a   nap, 
with    regular    sleep 
and wake-up times. 
 
 

 [167] 
Infants (Less than 1 year) 
Infants should be provided enough space and open environment to promote movement and 
minimize  restrictive  or  sedentary  behaviour  so  that  they  may  explore  their  surroundings. 
Babies should be encouraged to be active throughout the day, every day. Before your baby 
begins to crawl, encourage her/him to be physically active by reaching and grasping, pulling 
and  pushing,  moving  her/his  head,  body  and  limbs  during  daily  routines,  and  during 
supervised  floor  play.  This  includes  giving  the  baby  30  minutes  in  prone  position  (tummy 
time).  Playing  equipment  should  not  be  too  small  that  can  be  swallowed  or  having  sharp 
edges   or   prepared   with   toxic   material.   Activities   like   crawling   and   rolling   should   be 
performed  on mat  or sheet size of at least 7 feet by 4 feet. Once  babies can move around, 
encourage  them  to  be  as  active  as  possible  in  a  safe,  supervised  and  nurturing  play 
environment. During sedentary timing child must be engaged in reading and storytelling for 
encouragement. For 0-3 months ages 14-17 hours and for  4-11 months of age baby should 
have good quality sleep that includes naps. 
      
Toddlers (1-2 years of age) 
During this period, the  child should not be  involved in any sedentary activity which is more 
than one-hour long including being restrained in prams/strollers, high chairs, or strapped on 
a caregiver’s back, or sitting for extended  periods of time. Once they learn to sit and stand 
toddlers  should  be  encouraged  to  undertake  fundamental  physical  activity  like  walking, 
running,  jumping,  catching,  throwing,  leaping  etc.  In  this  group  sedentary  screen  time  like 
involvement with computer games, watching TV or video is not recommended. Engagement 
in  reading  and  storytelling  should  not  be  more  than  one  hour.  It  is  recommended  toddlers 
get 11-14 hours of good quality sleep, including naps, with regular sleep and wake-up times. 
         
Children 3–4 years 
Children should spend at least 180 minutes in a variety of types of physical activities at any 
intensity,  of  which  at  least  one  hour  is  spent  in  moderate  to  vigorous  intensity  physical 
activity.  This  should  be  spread  throughout  the  da y,  indoors  or  outside.  In  the  180  minutes 
of physical activity, we can include light activity such as standing up, moving around, rolling 
and playing, as well as more energetic activities like skipping, hopping, running and jumping. 
Active  play,  such  as  using  a  climbing  frame,  riding  a  bike,  playing  in  water,  chasing  games 
and ball games, is the best way for this age group to get moving. Sedentary time should not 
be  more  than  one  hour,  and  during  this  period  engagement  in  reading  and  storytelling 
should  be encouraged. Quality sleep between 10-13  hours is recommended which  includes 
a nap, with regular sleep and wake-up times. 

 [168] 
All  these  recommendations  are  divided  into  three  components  Physical  activity,  sedentary 
behaviour  and  sleep.  Lesser  sedentary  time  and  more  moderate  to  vigorous  intensity 
physical activity with sufficient sleep can provide additional health benefits. 
5.2.3  Children and Youth 5-17 Years 
These recommendations are relevant to healthy children and youth between 5 to 17 of age 
irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity or socio-economic status. 
Children   and   youth   with   a   specific   medical   condition   or   disability   may   follow   these 
recommendations  under  advice  of  a  medical  official  or  with  the  help  of  the  school  special 
education  teacher.  Activities  should  be  done  in  a  progressive  manner,  for  example  starting 
the  session  with  simple  exercises  to  complex,  gradually  increasing  the  frequency,  duration 
and intensity of the activities. There are various stages of growth in this age group, wherein 
at every stage the type of activities changes. The chief aim of activities during this age group 
is  to  improve  cardiorespiratory  and  muscular  fitness,  bone  health,  cardiovascular  and 
metabolic health biomarkers and to reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression. 
 
Picture Source 
2
 
Intensity Moderate to Vigorous. 
Volume/ 
Duration 
At  least  one  hour  in  a  day;  more  than  60  minutes  will  provide  additional 
health benefits. 
Frequency One session of 1 hour or two sessions of 30 minutes each. 
Types of 
Activities 
Aerobic, basic exercises for strengthening of muscles, Fundamental activities 
(Jumping, running, throwing, turning twisting etc.) 

 [169] 
Benefits Regular  exercise  helps  to  develop  Musculo-skeletal  system  (Bones,  muscles 
and joints), cardiovascular system (heart and lunges), neuromuscular system 
(coordination, movement control, motor learning) and maintain health body 
composition.  Physical  activities  also  help  to  develop  psychological  (control 
over  emotions,  anxiety,  depression,  and  manage  stress)  and  sociological 
aspects  (interaction,  integration,  leadership),  result  in  healthy  behaviour 
(avoidance of tobacco, alcohol, drugs) and promote academic performance. 
Activities Play,  Games,  Sports,  recreation,  physical  education,  unplanned  to  planned 
exercises with or within family, school and Community. 
5.2.4  Adults 18-64 Years 
These recommendations are  relevant to  healthy  adults aged between 18 to 64 irrespective 
of  gender,  race,  ethnicity  or  social-economic  status.  Adults  youth  with  disabilities  may 
follow these recommendations with adjustment as per capacity or limitations. Adult having 
any medical condition should follow the advice of medical official. Activities should be done 
in  progressive  manner  for  example  to  start  session  with  simple  exercises  to  complex, 
gradually increase frequency, duration, intensity of the activities. 
   
Intensity Moderate to Vigorous. 
Types of 
Activities 
Muscular strengthening (strength) and Aerobic physical activities 
Aerobic 
activities 
150 to 300 minutes per week with moderate intensity or 75 to 150 minutes 
per  week  with  vigorous  intensity;  One  aerobic  activity  bout  should  be  at 
least 10 minutes 

 [170] 
Muscle 
strengthening 
activities 
Activities  involving  major  muscles  involved  activity,  two  or  more  days  in  a 
week 
Benefits Regular  physical  activity  helps  to  lower  the  risk  of  all  causes  of  mortality, 
(For  example,  Heart  diseases,  blood  pressure,  stroke,  Type  2  diabetes, 
metabolic  syndrome,  colon  and  breast  cancers  and  depression)  hip  or 
vertebral   fractures,   and   to   develop   higher   level   of   cardiorespiratory 
muscular    fitness    and    maintain    healthy    weight    with    healthy    body 
composition, bone health. It lowers the risk of Non-Communicable Diseases 
and depression. 
Activities Physical  activities  (walking  jogging,  swimming,  weight  training,  dancing 
etc.),   occupational   work,   household   work   (car   wash,   gardening,   etc.) 
Games,   Sports,   recreation,   transportation   (walking,   cycling),   planned 
exercises with or within family and community. 
5.2.5  Older Adults 65 Years and Above 
These  recommendations  are  relevant  to  healthy  older  adults  aged  between  65  and  above 
irrespective  of  gender,  race,  ethnicity  or  social-economic  status.  These  recommendations 
are  also  relevant  for  individuals  suffering  from  chronic  NCD  conditions  Adults,  youth  with 
disabilities   may   follow   these   recommendations   with   adjustment   as   per   capacity   or 
limitations.  Individuals  with  specific  health  conditions,  such  as  cardiovascular  disease  and 
diabetes,  may  need  to  take  extra  precautions  and  seek  medical  advice  before  trying  to 
achieve  the  recommended  levels  of  physical  activity  for  older  adults.  Activities  should  be 
done  in  progressive  manner  for  example  to  start session  with  simple  exercises  to  complex, 
gradually  increasing  frequency,  duration  and  intensity  of  the  activities  as  per  their  ability 
and as conditions allow. 
 
Picture Source 
3
 

 [171] 
Intensity Moderate to Vigorous. 
Types of 
Activities 
Muscular   strengthening   (strength)   and   Aerobic   physical   activities   and 
Balance-enhancing exercises. 
Aerobic 
activities 
150 to 300 minutes per week with moderate intensity or 75 to 150 minutes 
per  week  with  vigorous  intensity;  One  aerobic  activity  bout  should  be  at 
least 10 minutes. 
Muscle 
strengthening 
activities 
Activities  involving  major  muscles  involved  activity,  two  or  more  days  in  a 
week 
Balance- 
enhancing 
Activities 
Older   adults,   with   poor   mobility,   should   perform   physical   activity   to 
enhance balance and prevent falls on 3 or more days per week. 
Benefits Regular  physical  activity  helps  to  lower  the  risk  of  all  causes  of  mortality, 
(For  example,  Heart  diseases,  blood  pressure,  stroke,  Type  2  diabetes, 
metabolic  syndrome,  colon  and  breast  cancers  and  depression)  hip  or 
vertebral   fractures,   and   to   develop   higher   level   of   cardiorespiratory 
muscular    fitness    and    maintain    healthy    weight    with    healthy    body 
composition,   bone   health.   It   lowers   the   risk   of   Non-Communicable 
Diseases, depression and cognitive decline. 
Activities Physical  activities  (walking  jogging,  swimming,  weight  training,  dancing 
etc.),   occupational   work,   household   work   (car   wash,   gardening,   etc.) 
Games,   Sports,   recreation,   transportation   (walking,   cycling),   planned 
exercises with or within family and community. 
 
Do you Know? 
Type of physical activity: includes aerobic, strength, flexibility, balance. 
Duration:  is  the  length  of  time  in  which  an  activity  or  exercise  is  performed.  Duration  is 
generally expressed in minutes. 
Frequency:  is  the  number  of  times  an  exercise  or  activity  is  performed.  Frequency  is 
generally expressed in sessions, episodes, or bouts per week. 
Intensity: refers to the rate at which the activity is being performed or the magnitude of the 
effort required to perform an activity or exercise. 
Volume:  Aerobic  exercise  exposures  can  be  characterized  by  an  interaction  between  bout 
intensity,  frequency,  duration,  and  longevity  of  the  programme.  The  product  of  these 
characteristics can be thought of as volume. 

 [172] 
Moderate-intensity  physical  activity:  On  an  absolute  scale,  moderate  intensity  refers  to 
activity  that  is  performed  at  3.0–5.9  times  the  intensity  of  rest.  On  a  scale  relative  to  an 
individual’s  personal  capacity,  moderate-intensity  physical  activity  is  usually  a  5  or  6  on  a 
scale of 0–10. 
Vigorous-intensity  physical  activity: On  an  absolute  scale,  vigorous  intensity  refers  to 
activity  that  is  performed  at  6.0  or  more  times  the  intensity  of  rest  for  adults  and  typically 
7.0  or  more  times  for  children  and  youth.  On  a  scale  relative  to  an  individual’s  personal 
capacity, vigorous intensity physical activity is usually a 7 or 8 on a scale of  0–10. 
Aerobic   activity: also   called   endurance   activity,   improves   cardiorespiratory   fitness. 
Examples  of  aerobic  activity  include:  brisk  walking,  running,  bicycling,  jumping  rope,  and 
swimming. 
Sedentary  behaviour: is  characterized  by  a  very  low  energy  expenditure,  such  as  sitting, 
reclining or lying down 
Sleep  behaviour: Duration  and  timing  of  sleep.  For  children  under  5  years  of  age  includes 
both at night and daytime naps. Toddler Child aged 1 to under 3 years (12.0–35.9 months). 
Tummy  time: Time  an  infant  spends  lying  on  her/his  stomach  (in  prone  position)  while 
awake with unrestricted movement of limbs. 
Nap: Period of sleep, usually during the daytime in addition to usual night time  sleep. 
Reference: www.who.int 
 
 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. Minimum duration of activity should be  _   per   week   at   vigorous   intensity   in 
adults above 65 years of age. 
 (a) 75 minutes 
 (b)     150 minutes 
 (c) 300 minutes 
 (d)     450 minutes 
2. Rate at which the activity is being performed is known as _     
 (a) Volume 
 (b) Intensity 
 (c) Type of Activity 
 (d)     Frequency 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
1. Write down Physical activities exercise guideline for under 5 of age. 

 [173] 
2. Briefly tell about physical activities exercises guideline for above 65 of age. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words 
1. Describe Physical activities exercise guideline for all groups. 
 
 
5.3.1  Posture 
Posture  is  defined  as  the  attitude  assumed  by  the  body  either  with  support  during  the 
course of muscular activity, or as a result of the coordinated action performed by a group of 
muscles working to maintain the stability. Posture is classified into two categories. 
1. Dynamic  posture is  how  one  holds  oneself  when  moving,  For  example,  walking, 
running,  or  bending  over  to  pick  up  something.  It  is  usually  required  to  form  an 
efficient  basis  for  movement.  Muscles  and  non-contractile  structures  have  to work  to 
adapt to changing circumstances. 
2. Static  posture is  how  one  holds  oneself  when  stationary  or  not  moving, For  example, 
sitting,  standing,  or  sleeping.  Body  segments  are  aligned  and  maintained  in  fixed 
positions.  This  is  usually  achieved  by  co-ordination  and  interaction  of  various  muscle 
groups which are working statically to counteract gravity and other forces. 
Extension Activity 
Working in groups 
 Distinguish between poor posture and proper posture. 
 Describe proper posture while sitting, studying, writing, standing,  walking. 
 Discuss the significance of having a good posture. 
Design  a  poster  to  be  put  up  on  the  school  Notice  Board  urging  students  to  maintain  good 
posture. Highlight the ill effects of poor posture. 
 
It is important to make sure to maintain a good posture. This is possible where all body parts 
are  aligned  in  such  a  way  that  least  stress  put  on  joints  and  muscles  and,  thus,  it  helps  to 
prevent  fatigue.  A  good  posture  helps  to  give  good  productivity  in  work,  and  leads  to  a 
physically and mentally stress-free condition. Postural deformity may be caused by heredity, 
disease,  injury,  poor  habits,  improper  clothing,  unhygienic  living  conditions,  improper  diet, 
improper exercises, lack of exercise, obesity, socio-economic status, etc. 
  

 [174] 
5.3.2  Common Postural Deformities 
There  are  a  number  of  postural  deformities,  some  of  which  are  given  below  along  with 
corrective measures. Corrective exercises should be done under advice and supervision of a 
physician or a physiotherapist. 
 
5.3.3  Knock Knees 
Knock  Knees,  also  known  as Genu  valgum,  is  a  knee  misalignment  that  turns  the  knees 
inward.  As  a  result,  both  knees  touch  or  knock  against  each  other  in  a  normal  standing 
posture  but  there  is  a  gap  of  3-4  inches  between  the  ankles.  It  is  generally  first  noticed  in 
early childhood, but in most cases, it usually corrects itself naturally by the time children are 
7-8  years  old.  However,  in  some  cases  it  continues  till  adolescence.  In  some  cases  Genu 
valgum can also develop due to an injury or infection in the knee or leg, rickets, severe lack 
of vitamin D and calcium, obesity, or arthritis in the knee. 
It  negatively  effects  walking  and  running  and  impedes  other  legs  movement  which  hinder 
performance. In case Genu valgum persists beyond childhood, it may have other symptoms 
besides  misaligned  knees.  They  include  stiff  joints,  knee  pain  and  walking  with  a  limp. 
Stressed  ligaments  and  muscles  can  also  cause  pain  in  the  hips,  ankles,  or  feet.  If  only  one 
knee is out of line, the stance may be unbalanced. 
Knock 
Knees 
  
Deformities 
 
 
  

 [175] 
 
Do you know? 
The man who discovered genes was an Austrian Gregor Mendel. Mendel was a 
scientist,   Augustinian   friar   and   abbot   of   St.   Thomas'   Abbey   in   Brno, 
Margraviate   of   Moravia.   Though   farmers   had   known   for   millennia   that 
crossbreeding   of  animals  and  plants  could   favor  certain  desirable  traits, 
Mendel's   pea   plant   experiments   conducted   between   1856   and   1863 
established  many  of  the  rules  of  heredity,  now  referred  to  as  the  laws  of  Mendelian 
inheritance. 
 
Corrective Measures 
Treatment  for  Genu  valgum  largely  depends  on  the  cause  and  severity  of  the  problem. 
Exercises like horse riding and keeping the pillow between the knees and standing erect for 
some  time  are  the  best.  For  most  people  with  Genu  valgum,  Yoga  and  exercise  can  help 
realign and stabilize the knees. Performing padmasana and gomukhasana regularly can help 
strengthen muscles of the legs and realign the knees. Strengthening exercises can be simple, 
such as leg raises while seated or lying down. Using of walking callipers is also a big help at 
pre-puberty stage. 
Excessive  body  weight  can  be  a  contributing  factor  to  Genu  valgum  as  extra  weight  puts 
additional strain on the legs and knees, and this can cause knock-knees to worsen. A person 
who is overweight should lose weight through a combination of diet and exercise. 
5.3.4  Flat Foot 
Flat foot is also known as pes planus or fallen arches. It is a condition that may be diagnosed 
by  looking  at  the  arch  of  the  foot  or  by  taking  the  water  print  test.  As  the  name  flat  foot 
suggests, people suffering from this deformity have either no arch in their feet, or one that 
is very low, allowing the entire soles of the feet to touch the floor in standing position. 

 [176] 
 
This  problem  may  be  genetic  or  environmental.  At  times  a  foot  or  ankle  injury  due  to 
obesity, injury, wearing improper shoes (tight shoes, high heels etc.), carrying heavy weight 
for  long  time,  arthritis  or  rheumatoid  arthritis.  It  may  be  caused  by  a  baby  being  forced to 
walk in an early stage, or it may be age related. Another condition that might cause flat feet 
is tarsal coalition. 
This condition causes the bones of the foot to fuse together unusually, resulting in stiff and 
flat feet. Tightness in calf muscles may lead to temporary flat feet. 
Arches  provide  a  spring  to  the  step  and  help  to  distribute  body  weight  across  the  feet  and 
legs.  The  structure  of  the  arches  determines  how  a  person  walks.  Arches  need  to  be  both 
sturdy and flexible to adapt to stress and a variety of surfaces. When people have flat feet, it 
affects their posture while standing, their walking, running, and other related performances. 
Flatfeet  can  sometimes  contribute  to  problems  in  the  ankles  and  knees.  Majority  of  babies 
are born with  flat feet but as they grow or get involved in physical activities the arch in the 
foot develops. 
Corrective Measures 
Exercises like walking, standing or jumping on toes and heels in all four directions, skipping 
rope, strengthens the muscles of foot which  help to develop the arch in the foot. Activities 
like picking up marbles with toes, writing numbers in the sand with the toes will also help in 
developing  the  arch.  Yoga asanas like Adhomukhsavasana performed  in Surya  Namaskar, 
Vajrasana and other therapeutic massages are also helpful in developing the arch. 
5.3.5  Round Shoulders 
Round shoulders is a postural deformity in which shoulders are bent forward from the ideal 
alignment, thereby giving a narrow curve to upper back. It leads to postural deviations such 
as hyperkyphosis, or hunch back and anterior head carriage, or forward head posture. Over 
time,  these  postural  conditions  can  progress  and  lead  to  other  conditions  such  as  chronic 
neck pain, thoracic outlet syndrome and lack of shoulder mobility. 

 [177] 
It may occur at any age due to poor posture habits, heredity, muscle imbalance, tight fitting 
clothes, injury, disease etc. Poor posture habits include using smartphone, tablet, computer, 
driving, carrying heavy weights and sitting for long periods. 
 
Corrective Measures 
Most  important  measure  to  correct  rounded  shoulders  is  strengthening  and  stretching  of 
muscles and trying to  correct the  imbalance  of muscles by doing chest stretches, T stretch, 
wall   stretch,   Handclasp   stretch   and   planks,   pull   ups,   reverse   shoulder   stretch,   etc. 
Developing  the  habit  of  keeping  the  spine  straight  is  also  helpful  in  correcting  rounded 
shoulders. Yoga asanas like Chakrasana, Dhanurasana, can be useful in correcting rounded 
shoulders. 
5.3.6  Kyphosis 
Kyphosis is also known as Hunch Back or round upper back. The word Kyphosis comes from 
the  Greek  term kyph and  means bent  or  bowed.  It  is  a  condition  of  the  spine  where  the 
curvature  of  the  upper  back  gets  exaggerated  or  increases.  It  is  an  exaggerated,  forward 
rounding   of   the   back.   Kyphosis   can   occur   due   to   heredity,   aging,   disease   (arthritis, 
osteoporosis),  malnutrition,  pulling  of  heavy  weight  over  a  period,  unstable  furniture,  poor 
postural habit, weakness in muscles etc. It can occur at any age but is most common in older 
women. Age-r
   elated kyphosis is often due to weakness in the spinal bones that causes them 
to  compress  or  crack.  Kyphosis  can  appear  in  infants  or  teens  due  to  malformation  of  the 
spine or wedging of the spinal bones over time. 

 [178] 
 
While   mild   Kyphosis   causes   few   problems,   severe   Kyphosis   can   cause   pain   and   be 
disfiguring.  This  posture  creates  instability  while  walking,  running  etc.  that  may  lead  to  fall 
or injury. 
Corrective Measures 
Exercises  which  help  to  strengthen  back  muscles,  provide  stability  and  make  muscles  more 
flexible  should  be  performed.  Physical  therapy,  swimming,  exercise/  gym  ball  exercises, 
exercises  with  bands,  and  Yoga asanas like Dhanurasana,  Chakrasana and Bhujangasana 
should  be  performed  to  get  optimum  benefits.  Using  a  flat  bed  with  a  thin  pillow  while 
sleeping. 
5.3.7  Lordosis 
The  term Lordosis comes  from  the  Greek lordos which  means bent  backward.  The  spine 
curves  a  little  in  the  neck,  upper  back,  and  lower  back.  These  curves,  which  create  the 
spine’s  S  shape,  are  called  the  kyphotic  (upper  back)  and  lordotic  (neck  and  lower  back). 
Lordosis  is  a  spinal  deformity  in  which  the  angle  of  arc  of  the  lower  back  is  reduced.  This 
leads to an increase and exaggeration of normal concavity of the lumber region of the spine. 
It is also known as sway back. Chronic Lordosis may lead to pain and discomfort and become 
more serious if left untreated. 

 [179] 
 
Lordosis is often caused by obesity, improper development of muscles, muscular or skeletal 
disease  or  accident,  poor  posture  while  standing,  sitting  and  walking,  malnutrition,  etc. 
There are few cases where the cause was unknown. It is generally found in children because 
of weakening or tightening of muscles of the hip  area, but they easily recover as they grow 
and muscles get strengthened. 
Corrective Measures 
Most  people  with  Lordosis  don’t  require  medical  treatment  unless  it’s  a  severe  case.  In 
severe  cases  of  Lordosis  in  children  and  teens  may  require  use  of  braces,  or  even  surgery. 
Largely,  weight  loss,  to  help  posture  and  daily  physical  therapy,  to  strengthen  muscles  and 
range  of  motion  prove  quite  helpful.  Exercises  to  develop  strength  in  the  pelvic  region  like 
sit-ups,  sitting  against  the  wall  and  pushing  the  trunk  backward  and  lying  on  the  back  and 
raising  upper  extremities  and  legs  together  will  give  significant  benefits.  Yoga asanas 
including Dhanurasana and Halasana will  be  helpful.  Use  of  braces,  weight  reduction, 
maintaining a good posture and taking a balanced diet are helpful in reducing the problem. 
5.3.8  Scoliosis 
The word Scoliosis comes from the Greek skolios which means bent. Scoliosis is a position in 
which  the  spine  is  tilted  to  either  side  of  the  body.  It  is  a  position  of  exaggerated  lateral 

 [180] 
curvature or sideways curvature of the. In this disorder, the spine bends, twists or rotates in 
a way that it makes a C or an S shape. Scoliosis is found more commonly in girls than in boys 
and,  though  it  can  occur  at  any  age,  but  it  is  more  common  during  the  growth  spurt  just 
before puberty. Most cases of scoliosis are mild, but some spinal deformities continue to get 
more severe as children grow. Severe scoliosis can be  disabling. An especially severe spinal 
curve  can  reduce  the  amount  of  space  within  the  chest,  making  it  difficult  for  the  lungs  to 
function properly. 
 
Scoliosis  can  be  caused  by  conditions  such  as  cerebral  palsy  and  muscular  dystrophy,  or 
diseases like Arthritis, Paralysis, Rickets. It may result from lifting heavy weights, living in an 
unhealthy environment, and standing and sitting in a wrong posture. However, the cause of 
most scoliosis is unknown. 
Corrective Measures 
In  cases  of  mild  Scoliosis,  no  treatment  is  necessary.  Some  children  may  need  to  wear  a 
brace to stop the curve from worsening. Others may need surgery to keep the problem from 
worsening  and  to  straighten  the  spine.  Exercises  like  hanging  on  the  horizontal  bars  and 
swinging  should  be  done  on  opposite  side  of  the  C-shaped  curve.  Aerobic  activities  with 
slow  pace  and  breaststroke  in  swimming  are  helpful  and  also  give  good  results.  In  yoga 
Trikonasana and Adhomukhasana should be performed to straighten the spine. 
  

 [181] 
5.3.9  Bow Legs 
Bow  Legs,  also  known  as  Genu  varum,  is  a  position  of  knees  in  which  legs  look  like  a  bow, 
when  the  legs  curve  outward  at  the  knees  while  the  feet  and  ankles  touch.  Infants  and 
toddlers  often  have  bow  legs.  It  may  be  caused  due  to  lack  of  Vitamin  D,  Phosphorus  and 
Calcium  and  can  be  easily  cured  at  an  early  stage.  The  condition  doesn't  cause  pain  or 
discomfort and is rarely serious. It does not affect running, standing, crawling etc. Bow legs 
is  a  condition  that  usually  goes  away  without  treatment,  often  by  the  time  a  child  is  3–4 
years old and does not affect a child's ability to crawl, walk, or run. However, parents might 
worry about the appearance of their child's legs, or an awkward walking pattern. 
 
Sometimes,  kids  with  bow  legs  may walk  with  the  toes  pointed  inward,  called  pigeon-toes, 
or they may trip a lot and appear clumsy. Although in most cases the problem generally gets 
resolved on its own as the child grows, sometimes, it may lead to arthritis in the knees and 
hips.  At  times  Bowlegs  can  be  a  sign  of  an  underlying  disease,  such  as  Blount’s  disease, 
rickets, or arthritis. 
Corrective Measures 
Use  of  braces  and  modified  shoes  can  be  along  with  sufficient  intake  of  balanced  diet  can 
prove to be of help. Walking on the inner edge of the feet may also help. 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. Deformity of the legs is known as 
 (a) Scoliosis 
 (b)     Lordosis 
 (c) Knock knees 

 [182] 
 (d)     Kyphosis 
2. Lordosis is a problem of the 
 (a) Lower Back 
 (b)     Middle Back 
 (c) Upper Back 
 (d)     Shoulders 
3. Scoliosis is a postural deformity related to 
 (a) Muscles 
 (b)     Shoulders 
 (c) Legs 
 (d)     Spine 
4. Kyphosis is a deformity found in 
 (a) Shoulders 
 (b)     Lumber region 
 (c) Hips 
 (d)     Thoracic region 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
1. What is meant by Round Shoulders? Mention a few exercises to correct it. 
2. What is the Lordosis? Write in brief. 
3. Write in brief the causes and symptoms of Knock Knees. 
4. Explain corrective measures for Flatfoot. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words 
1. Explain any five postural deformities with their corrective measures. 
2. Describe corrective measures of some common spinal postural deformities. 
5.4.1  Participation of Women in Sports in India 
Women's  sports,  both  amateur  and  professional,  have  existed  throughout  the  world  for 
centuries in all varieties of sports. There is a rich record of sports participation of women in 
India.  In  the  days  of Mahabharata, Shakuntala,  Madhuri,  Kunti  all  choose  physical  activities 
as  recreation.  As  time  passed,  India  women  were  deprived  of  participation  in  sports  for  a 
number of reasons, despite having potential and talent. They were put on the back seat, and 
were  not  allowed  to  participate  in  sports.  However,  female  participation  and  popularity  in 

 [183] 
sports increased dramatically in the last quarter of the 20th century, reflecting changes that 
emphasize  gender  parity.  Although  the  level  of  participation  and  performance  can  still  be 
improved, women's participation in sports is generally accepted and promoted today. 
Although  women  have  shown  a  dramatic  rise  in  sports  participation,  there  is  still  a  large 
disparity   in   participation   rates   between   women   and   men   remains.   These   disparities 
continue  to  hinder  equality  in  sports.  Many  institutions  and  programmes  still  remain 
conservative  and  do  not  contribute  to  gender  equity  in  sports.  Some  research  in  physical 
domain   lists   constraints   like   heavy   limbs,   pear-shaped   body   structure   and   postural 
deformities  like  flat  foot  knock  knees  etc.,  and  physiological  constraints  including  low  level 
of RBCs, smaller heart and lungs, high fat percentage, menstrual disorders etc as reasons for 
women’s  non-participation  in  sports.  There  are  certain  psychological  constraints  like  low 
self-confidence  and  self-esteem,  higher  levels  of  stress  and  anxiety  and  social  causes  like 
lack of support or positive reinforcement from family and a male-dominated social structure 
that  affect  women’s  participation  in  Sports.  Religious  and  economic  factors  also  play  a 
negative role that affects women’s participation in sports. 
 
However,  these  constraints  are  now  being  reduced  or  eliminated  as  more  women  athletes 
are  participating  in  sports.  Regular  physical  activities  and  sports  help  to  manage  weight, 
tone   the   muscles,   lower   blood   pressure,   improve   blood   flow,   increase   high   density 
lipoprotein  and  lower  low  density  lipoprotein  levels.  Increased  physical  activity  lowers  the 
risk of heart and lungs disease and increases heart and lung capacity. Sports is an important 

 [184] 
tool  for  social  empowerment  and  helps  to  develop  skills  like  communication,  teamwork, 
leadership, respect, social interaction, sportsmanship etc. and can significantly contribute to 
develop  society  and  community.  Sports  participation  not  only  provide  health  benefits  but 
give  overall  development.  Sport  does  not  discriminate  on  the  basis  of  colour,  cast,  creed, 
sex, race etc. 
This  trend  of  lower  participation  of  women  in  sports  exists  not  just  in  India,  but  is  a  global 
phenomenon. Participation of women at all levels from regional to international is limited. It 
affects  all  domains  like  participation  in  sports  activities,  administration  of  associations  and 
federations,  and  participation  in  national  and  international  level  committees.  Women  who 
play  sports  continue  to  face  many  obstacles,  such  as  lower  pay,  less  media  coverage,  and 
different injuries compared to their male counterparts. Many female athletes have engaged 
in  peaceful  protests,  such  as  playing  strikes,  social  media  campaigns,  and  even  lawsuits  to 
address these inequalities. 
Do you know? 
Some Indian women sportspersons who won medals in international events in 2019. 
1. Dutee  Chand  - First  Indian  to  win  a  100m  gold  in  a  global  event  at  the  30th  Summer 
University Games in Napoli,  Italy. 
2. Hima Das - Won 5 gold medals in 20 days 
 July 2, Poznan: 200m gold (23.65 seconds) 
 July 7, Kunto: 200m gold (23.97 seconds) 
 July 13, Kladno: 200m gold (23.43 seconds) 
 July 17, Tabor: 200m gold (23.25 seconds) 
 July 20, Prague: 400m gold (52.09 seconds) 
3. PV Sindhu - First Indian to win World Championships 
 2013 - Bronze 
 2014 - Bronze 
 2017 - Silver 
 2018 - Silver 
 2019 – Gold 
4. Manasi Joshi - Won BWF Para-Badminton World Championship 
 Para-badminton player Manasi Joshi created history by securing gold at the BWF Para-
Badminton World Championships, just a day before Sindhu. 
5. PU Chitra - Clinched gold in women's 1500m  race 
 Won the Gold at the Asian Athletics Championship 2019 in  Doha. 

 [185] 
The  International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC)  encourages  participation  not  only  in  playing 
sports  but  in  National  Olympic  Committees  and  International  Federations  and  conducting 
regional seminars for female administrators, coaches, technical officials and journalists. In a 
recent  announcement  by  IOC,  49%  women  will  take  part  in  next  Olympic  games.  The 
constitution  of  India  also  provides  gender  equality  and  ensures  to  eliminate  any  type  of 
hindrance. Sports is a medium to get gender equity and empowerment. 
5.4.2  Constraints for Women's Participation in Sports in India 
Physical Constraints - Physical constraints refer to the morphological feature adaptations to 
particular sports. Basically, it refers to the qualities of the sports person such as the physical 
fitness  parameters.  If  there  is  failure  in  any  of  these  required  parameters  it  results  in  the 
reduction  of  sports  performance.  To  mention  a  few:  heavy  musculature  of  limbs,  pelvic  or 
abdomen, improper posture/ postural deformity or flat foot. 
Physiological  Constraints -Physiological  constraints  refer  to  the  organ  functions  ultimately 
impacting  the  system  coordination.  If  there  is  any  dysfunction  of  the  organs  it  results  in 
reduction of sports performance. Some women have lower levels of RBCs, lower percentage 
of  Haemoglobin,  smaller  or  weaker  heart  and  it  circulation,  smaller  or  weaker  lungs  and 
breathing   mechanism,   dysfunction   of   organs   of   endocrine   system,   greater   body   fat 
percentage,   dominance   of   neither   aerobic   power   nor   anaerobic   power   ,   Menstrual 
disorders. 
Psychological Constraints - Psychological constraints comprise the behavioural process such 
as higher level of anxiety or aggression, lack of self- confidence, achievement motivation or 
interest,  lower  self-esteem  or  hesitation  to  participate  during  menstrual  periods.  These 
factors result in the reduction of wilful participation in sports. 
Social Constraints - Social constraints refer to the behaviour of society in general and sports 
field  in  particular.  During  training  and  competition,  the  relationship  with  coaches,  arena 
persons, training-m
ates, co-participants,  opponents and officials during competition affects 
not   just   performance,   but   also   participation.   If   there   is   any   undue   harassment   or 
misbehaviour  during  this  period,  it  results  in  reduction  in  sports  performance  or  ultimately 
exit  from  sports  participation.  Lack  of  parental  support  and  encouragement,  and  male 
dominant social structure also has a very negative impact on participation. 
Religious    Constraints -    Religious    constraints    prevail    in    those    societies    who    are 
fundamentalist and  have rigid  religious beliefs. They fear as society may ostracise them  for 
going  beyond  the  boundaries  of  their  religion.  This  might  also  be  the  cause  of  limited 
participation in sports by women in India. 

 [186] 
Economic Constraints - Economic constraints are considered the most important factor that 
hinders the women participation in sports. Insufficient funds, lack of sponsors also results in 
women  exiting  the  sports  arena.  Economic  constraints  are  magnified  by  the  triangular  or 
pyramidal   factors.   Non-availability   of   expert   trainers,   lack   of   sufficient   infrastructural 
facilities  and  non-availability  of  sports  equipment  compounds  the  problem.  Infrastructural 
facilities  include  availability  of  area  for  training,  indoor  stadiums  or  constructive  sporting 
environment   to   undergo   training.   Lack   of   qualified   coaches   results   not   just   in   poor 
performance but also becomes a cause of sports injuries. 
Because  of  the  above  discussed  constraints  and  barriers  women  face  problems  is  sports 
participation.  Campaign  for  all  women’s  participation  in  sports  should  be  encouraged  in 
schools,  colleges  and  in  universities.  Awareness  programmes  for  women’s  participation  in 
sports should be conducted on a regular basis and they should be encouraged to participate 
in   competitive   sports.   Families   should   also   be   encouraged   to   support   their   girls   to 
participate  in  sports.  Media  coverage  and  sponsorship  can  enhance  sports  participation  of 
women  in  India.  Sports  equipment  must  be  developed  focusing on  physiological  aspects  of 
women.   Appointment   of   women   coaches,   providing   opportunities   for   competitions, 
eliminating    cultural    and    social    negativity    and    proper    facilities    can    ensure    larger 
participation.  And  in  those  states  where  religion  is  becoming  a  constraint  should  come  up 
with  some  alternatives  so  that  their  women  can  also  participate  in  sports  and  live  a  better 
and healthy life. 
Now   times   are   changing   and   society   is   accepting,   and   even   encouraging,   women’s 
participation  in  sports  on  National  and  International  levels.  In  recent  years,  it  has  been 
raining gold on Indian women athletes in the International arena proving women are no less 
of  a  powerhouse  when  it  comes  to  winning  medals  and  championships  for  the  country. 
Barriers  which  prevented  women  from  participating  in  sports  are  getting  broken.  Women 
are  coming  out  and  participating  in  sports  and  physical  activities  in  large  numbers.  Karnam 
Malleswari  was  the  first  women  who  won  a  medal  in  Olympic  Games  in  Sydney  in  2000.  In 
2012,  London  Olympics,  five  times  world  champion  Mary  Kom  won  a  medal  in  boxing  and 
Saina Nehwal  in Badminton. In 2016  Rio  Olympics Sakshi Malik won medal in wrestling and 
P.V. Sindhu won the first ever women’s silver medal in badminton. P.T Usha and Anju Bobby 
George  were  athletes  who  earned  a  name  in  Athletics  at  international  level.  Our  Indian 
women cricket team, wrestling, badminton, boxing, giving country name new heights. 
  

 [187] 
Extension Activity 
In recent years Indian women athletes have done India proud in International Sports events. 
Identify  the  following  and  match  the  pictures  to  their  names.  Mention  their  games  in  the 
blank. 
Make a PPT about any one of them. 
  
SANIA MIRZA 
 
 
  
P.T USHA 
 
 
  
SAINA NEHWAL 
 
 
  
P.V. SINDHU 
 
 
  
MARY KOM 
 
 
 
 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. Karnam Malleswari won a bronze medal in Olympic Games at 
 (a) Rio De Janeiro 
 (b)     London 
 (c) Sydney 
 (d)     Athens 
2. Sakshi Malik won a medal in 
 (a) Badminton 
 (b)     Weightlifting 
 (c) Wrestling 
 (d)     Boxing 

 [188] 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
1. Write a short note on benefits of participation in sports. 
2. How has women’s participation in sports changed over the last two decades? 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words 
1. Explain  the  various  constraints  faced  by  women  in  sports.  How  have  they  overcome 
them? 
 
5.5.1  Menarche 
The period  of adolescence is marked  by certain  universal physical and biological changes in 
the body which lead to the attainment of sexual maturity. The time when sexual maturity is 
reached  is  called  puberty.  Menarche  (first  menstruation)  is  usually  considered  the  point  of 
sexual maturity for girls. It is the process in which female reproduction system matures and 
the  body  prepares  itself  for  potential  pregnancy.  It  is  associated  with  the  development  of 
secondary  sexual  characteristics.  Menarche  is  one  of  the  most  significant  milestones  in  a 
woman's life. The average age for a girl to get her first period ranges from 8 to 15 years old. 
Although  the  precise  determinants  of  menarcheal  age  remain  to  be  understood,  genetic 
influences,  socio-economic  conditions,  general  health  and  well-being,  nutritional  status, 
certain  types  of  exercise,  seasonality,  and  family  size  possibly  play  a  role.  Over  the  past 
century the age at menarche has fallen due to reasons still unknown. 
Menstruation  (also  termed  as  period  or  bleeding)  is  the  process  in  a woman  of  discharging 
(through  the  vagina)  blood  and  other  materials  from  the  lining  of  the  uterus  at  about  a 
monthly  interval  from  puberty  until  menopause,  except  during  pregnancy.  This  discharging 
process  lasts  about  3-5  days.  Women  usually  have  periods  until  about  ages  45  to  55  and 
have  menopause  usually  around  age  of  50.  Menopause  means  that  a  woman  is  no  longer 
ovulating  and  can  no  longer  get  pregnant.  Like  menstruation,  age  of  menopause  can  vary 
from woman to woman and these changes may occur over several years. 
  

 [189] 
5.5.2  Menstrual Dysfunction  
 
Menstrual  dysfunction  is  an  abnormal  condition  in  a  woman's  menstrual  cycle.  Normal 
range of the menstruation cycle  is 21 to  35  days. If it happens earlier than  21  days or after 
more than 35 days, then it’s a problem. Other menstrual problems include missing three or 
more  periods,  menstrual  flow  heavier  or  lighter  in  comparison  with  usual,  cycle  happening 
longer  than  seven  days,  any  pain,  cramping  or  vomiting  during  period,  bleeding  after 
menopause etc. 
Causes  of  abnormal  menstrual  cycles  or  menstrual  order  are:  overweight,  stress,  dietary 
disorder,  disease,  sudden  change  in  exercise  schedule,  travel,  other  medical  complications 
etc.  
There are different types of menstrual disorders which are given below: 
1. Pre-menstrual     Syndrome: Pre-menstrual     Syndrome     includes     unpleasant     or 
uncomfortable  symptoms  during  the  cycle.  These  may  include  depression,  anxiety, 
irritation,  headache,  fainting,  vertigo,  infection  etc.  and  may  last  from  a  few  hours  to 
few  days.  Symptoms  Such  symptoms  may  be  reduced  through  moderate  exercise, 
taking a balanced diet, having a good sleep and rest. 
2. Amenorrhea: Amenorrhea is known as missed periods or absence of a normal monthly 
period or menstrual cycle. There are two types of amenorrhea. 
 (a)     Primary amenorrhea: Menstruation cycle does not begin at puberty. 
 
 
 
 
Menstrual 
Dysfunction 
Oligomenorrhea 
 
Polymenorrhea 
Postmenopa
usal 

 [190] 
 (b)     Secondary  amenorrhea: It  happens  when  menstruation  for  three  months  or 
more. This is the most common type of amenorrhea. 
3. Dysmenorrhea:  When  menstruation  happens  with  severe  pain  or  frequent  menstrual 
cramps,    the    condition    is    called    Dysmenorrhea.    Symptoms    associated    with 
dysmenorrhea  may  be  cramping  in  lower  abdomen,  low  back  pain,  pain  in  legs, 
nausea, fatigue, weakness etc. 
4. Menorrhagia: Menorrhagia  is  characterized  by  heavy  and  long  term  or  continuous 
menstrual bleeding. 
5. Polymenorrhea: Polymenorrhea  is  a  term  used  to  describe  a  menstrual  cycle  that  is 
shorter than 21 days. 
6. Oligomenorrhea: Oligomenorrhea   is  infrequent  menstruation.  More  strictly,  it   is 
menstrual periods occurring at intervals of greater than 35 days. 
7. Metrorrhagia: Metrorrhagia  refers  to  missed,  delayed  or  erratic  periods  or  abnormal 
bleeding patterns. 
8. Postmenopausal bleeding: Postmenopausal bleeding is bleeding that occurs after one 
year  of  menopause  or  after  a  woman  has  stopped  having  menstrual  cycles  due  to 
menopause. 
The  female  hormones  oestrogen  and  progesterone  are  important  for  overall  body  health. 
These  hormones  also  regulate  a  woman’s  periods.  Intense  exercise  and  extreme  thinness 
can reduce the levels of these hormones to prevent or stop monthly menstrual cycles. 
Extension Activity 
Visit a nearby stadium and talk to women athletes. Collect a data of 5 such athletes in their 
teens.  Are  they  facing  any  problem  related  to  their  health,  diet  etc?  Discuss  about  it  in  the 
class. 
 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. Frequent menstruation is known as: 
 (a) Metrorrhagia 
 (b)     Oligomenorrhea 
 (c) Polymenorrhea 
 (d)     Menorrhagia 
2. If the menstruation cycle does not begin at puberty, the condition is called 
 (a) Primary amenorrhea 
 (b)     Secondary amenorrhea 

 [191] 
 (c) Oligomenorrhea 
 (d)     Dysmenorrhea 
II. Answer the following questions briefly 
1. What is menstrual dysfunction? Write in brief. 
2. Explain the term Menarche. 
3. Write short note on Amenorrhea. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words 
1. Explain menstrual dysfunction. 
 
5.6.1  Female Athlete Triad 
Participation  in  sports  and  physical  activities  provides  a  lot  of  physical  and  social  benefits 
like  developing  leadership  qualities,  competition,  team  work  etc.  Regular  participation  in 
such activities is associated with a longer and better quality of life, reduced risks of a variety 
of  diseases  and  many  psychological  and  emotional  benefits.  Evidence  suggests  a  positive 
relationship  between  physical  activity  and  a  host  of  factors  affecting  girls’  physical  health, 
including  diabetes,  blood  pressure  and  the  ability  to  use  fat  for  energy,  thus  preventing 
obesity.  Physical  activity  could  reduce  the  risk  of  chronic  diseases  in  later  life.  Conditions, 
such as cancer, diabetes and coronary heart disease, have their origins in childhood, and can 
be  aided,  in  part,  by  regular  physical  activity  in  the  early  years.  Also,  regular  activity 
beginning  in  childhood  helps  to  improve  bone  health,  thus  preventing  osteoporosis,  which 
predominantly affects females. 
However, participation in sports is not without certain health risks. Sports like Judo, boxing, 
wrestling,  taekwondo  etc.  exert  a  lot  of  pressure  on  athletes  to  maintain  their  shape  and 
weight. Participation in sports like distance running, cycling, cross country etc. athletes have 
to  take  a  balanced  diet  since  these  demand  high  levels  of  energy  and  a  good  quantity  of 
dietary  intake.  Such  pressures  put  the  athlete’s  health  at  risk  and  leads  to Female  Athlete 
Triad.  The  term  ‘triad’  was  first  described  by  American  college  of  sports  medicine  in  1992, 
and the three components to describe the triad were 
(a) disordered eating, 
(b)     amenorrhoea and 
(c) osteoporosis 

 [192] 
 
Picture Source 
4
 
The  illustration  above  depicts  the  female  athlete  triad  spectrum.  The  black  lines  represent 
the  spectrums  of  each  of  the  3  components  and  the  red  and  green  triangles  show  both  of 
the  extremes.  The  top  green  triangle  represents  a  healthy  athlete  who  has  a  good  balance 
between energy intake and expenditure. Because of this, they have a normal menstruation 
cycle  and  a  bone  mineral  density  that  is  above  average  for  the  athlete’s  age.  The  bottom 
left, red triangle represents an athlete who does not have an appropriate balance between 
energy intake and expenditure, which may be the result of restrictive dieting and/or clinical 
eating disorders. 
The  terms  to  describe  Female  Athlete  Triad  have  now  been  revised.  The  new  terms  to 
indicate problems are 
(a) low energy availability with or without eating disorder, 
(b)     dysfunction of menstruation and 
(c) low bone density. 
This change was relevant because all these three revised components can be easily resolved 
by proper energy intake and expenditure and same may be used as effective strategy. Thus, 
if  an  individual  takes  optimum  calories  as  required  by  body,  including  energy  required  for 
physical  activity  and  energy  required  for  body  functions,  the  result  is  promotion  of  healthy 
bones and normal menstrual function. All three components are very much interlinked. 

 [193] 
 
5.6.2  Low Energy Availability with or Without Disordered Eating 
Disbalance  of  energy  may  occurs  due  to  disordered  eating  and  eating  disorderly.  The 
problem  of  female  athlete  triad  originated  from  not  balancing  energy  intake  and  energy 
expenditure.  Consequently,  an  athlete  must  have  knowledge  of  how  to  balance  the  energy 
intake. 
Eating  disorder  is  known  as  gross  disturbance  in  eating  behaviour.  Disordered  eating  has 
wide  range  of  harmful  and  often  ineffective  eating  behaviours  in  the  process  of  weight 
reduction. 
These  includes  calorie  restriction  to  clinical  disorders  of Anorexia  nervosa and bulimia 
nervosa. Sportspersons  participating  in  activities  in  which  leanness  or  specific  weight  is 
required  for  performance  are  at  higher  risk  of  developing  eating  disorders.  Coaches,  team 
physicians,  parents,  and  other  supporting  staff  should  know  the  symptom  so  that  the 
problem can be treated on time, other-wise it leads to long term physiological, psychological 
effects or, in extreme cases, fatal results. 
Anorexia  nervosa is  an  eating  disorder  where  an  individual  tries  to  reduce  body  weight 
abnormally, having an intense fear of gaining weight or misconception over his/her weight. 
Individuals  with  anorexia  place  a  high  value  on  controlling  their  weight  and  shape,  using 
extreme efforts that tend to significantly interfere with their lives. To prevent weight gain or 
to continue losing weight, people with anorexia usually severely restrict the amount of food 
they  eat.  They  may  control  calorie-intake  by  vomiting  after  eating  or  by  misusing  laxatives, 
diet aids, or diuretics. They may also try to lose weight by exercising excessively. No matter 
how  much  weight  is  lost,  the  person  continues  to  fear  weight  gain.  Symptoms  may  include 
menstrual  dysfunction,  constipation,  diarrhoea,  bloating,  unexpected  weight  loss,  muscle 
weakness, stress fracture, bone weakness, overuse injuries, anxiety etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 [194] 
Bulimia nervosa is an eating disorder in which an individual eats large amount of food with 
loss  of  control  over  eating  and  then  adopts  unhealthy  ways  to  cut  down  calories  like 
vomiting,   take   laxatives,   weight   loss   supplements,   diuretics,   excessive   exercises   etc. 
Symptom  of  bulimia  are  dehydration,  dental  problems,  oedema,  electrolyte  abnormalities, 
extreme weight fluctuation, menstrual irregularity, weakness, cramps, depression etc. 
5.6.3  Menstrual Dysfunction  
Menstrual irregularities is one of the components of Female Athlete Triad and it is a marker 
of quality health in female athletes. Menstrual dysfunction is common in sportswomen and 
is  often  ignored.  It  is  important  that  young  female  athletes  should  be  informed  enough  to 
understand  the  problem  and  must  know  the  management  of  the  menstruation  disorder.  If 
the problem is managed in time, then it may positively affect athletic performance. Ignored 
or  untreated  menstrual  irregularities  may  have  a  prolonged  effect  on  bone  mineralization 
and  the  treatment  may  last  months  and  years.  Generally  female  sportspersons  suffering 
from  menstrual   irregularities,  self-  select  different  sports  in  comparison  with  normal 
menstruating  peers  because  in  delayed  puberty  females  develop  strong  bones  and  taller 
height  than  others.  However,  such  dysfunction  may  affect  sports  performance  in  the  long 
run  and  lead  to  complications.  Recent  research  says  weight  training  has  lots  of  benefits 
including strengthening of the bones and may not affect adolescent menstrual irregularities. 
Studies  show  that  more  than  15%  females  participating  in  Olympics  may  be  suffering  from 
amenorrhea. Sometimes the skeletal health of a  female athlete suffering from amenorrhea 
is much lower than that of a sedentary woman. 
5.6.4  Low Bone Mineral Density 
Low  bone  mineral  density,  previously  termed  osteoporosis,  may  be  defined  as  a  disease 
marked  by  increased  bone  fragility,  disturbance  in  bone  structure  including  low  bone 
mineral density (BMD) that may result in fractures, pain, deformity, disability etc. Low BMD 
is  generally  caused  by  improper  diet  and  amenorrhoea.  Due  to  low  level  of  oestrogen  and 
progesterone  in  female  athletes,  their  bones  become  weaker  and  lose  minerals.  Effects  of 
low bone mineral density include increased occurrence of injury, stress fractures, and risk of 
early  osteoporosis  after  menopause.  Deposition  of  bone  increases  during  childhood  and 
adolescence  and  peaks  during  the  20s  and  30s.  A  large  genetic  component  to  BMD  also 
exists,  with  heritability  of  BMD  suggested  to  be  50–85%.  Knowledge  of  family  history  or 
other  medical  condition  linked  with  BMD  will  help  keep  female  athletes  safe  from  risk  of 
injury and  fractures. Intensity, volume, frequency, type of activity should  be determined by 
knowledge of genetic characteristics. 

 [195] 
The  female  athlete  triad  is  a  result  of  energy  imbalance;  thus,  adjusting  the  energy 
expenditure and energy availability is the main intervention. For this the main treatment is 
restoration   of   regular   menstrual   cycle   for   reestablishment   of   energy   balance   and 
enhancement  of  bone  mineral  density.  The  strongest  predictor  of  recovery  to  normal 
menstrual  function  in  young  athletes  is  weight  gain.  Family-based  therapy  and  cognitive 
behavioural  therapy,  also  have  been  known  to  be  effective  interventions  for  disordered 
eating. A sports nutritionist can help the athlete and her family determine the quantity and 
quality of food consumption and dietary supplements required to meet her bodily functions, 
replace  energy  output  due  to  athletic  training,  and  enhance  bone  health.  Additionally, 
weight gain may be necessary to increase BMD. 
Case Study 
In 2000 Sydney Games weightlifter Karnam Malleswari won the bronze medal and created a 
historic moment for India, becoming the first Indian woman to win a medal at the Olympics. 
She was followed by Saina Nehwal and Mary Kom in the London Olympics 2012 years.  
 the  Olympics. The  last  eight  years  have  seen  a  slow,  but  steady  rise  for  Indian  women 
athletes at world events. Study the charts given below and answer the following questions? 
         
Picture Source 
5
 
Q. Which  year  marks  a  turning  point  in  women’s  winning  medals  at  International  Sports 
Competitions? 
Q. Which are the fields that they have excelled in? 
Q. In which International competition have they won the greatest number of medals? 
Q. What  are  the  reasons  for  the  consistently  good  performance  of  Indian  women  in 
International sports? 
 

 [196] 
I. Tick the correct options. 
1. Weakening of bones due to loss of bone density and improper bone formation is 
 (a) Amenorrhea 
 (b)     Anorexia Nervosa 
 (c) Osteoporosis 
 (d)     Lordosis 
2. What is the cause of Osteoporosis in women? 
 (a) High blood pressure 
 (b)     Menarche 
 (c) Excessive exercise 
 (d)     Lack of calcium and vitamin D 
3. Female athlete triad is a syndrome characterized by 
 (a) Osteoporosis 
 (b)     Amenorrhea 
 (c) Eating disorder 
 (d)     All of the above 
4. In which type of Anorexia does an individual lose weight by taking laxatives or diuretics 
 (a) Bulimia Nervosa 
 (b)     Purging type 
 (c) Restricting type 
 (d)     Anorexia Nervosa 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Explain eating disorder. 
2. Write a short note on Bone Mineral density. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words 
1. What is Female Athlete Triad? Explain. 
 
  

 [197] 
Art Integration 
There’s  no  easier  way  to  make  someone  smile,  or  let  them  know  you  admire  them  than 
giving them a heartfelt compliment. It’s amazing how much saying these kind words can lift 
someone  up  and  really  turn  a  person’s  day  around.  There  are  many  ways  to  deliver  a 
compliment. However, nothing can be as beautiful as saying it in a song. 
Write and dedicate a song to the Female Sportsperson you admire most. 
 
References: 
1 
Corley, H. (2020, 01 13). Differences Between a Baby, Newborn, Infant, & Toddler. Retrieved 11 25, 
2020, from Verywell: https://www.verywellfamily.com/difference-between-baby-newborn-infant-
toddler-293848 
 
2 
(n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://www.freepik.com/premium-vector/children-playing-tug-
war_3327572.htm 
 
3
 (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://www.123rf.com/clipart-
vector/old_person_happy.html?alttext=1&oriSearch=old_person&ch=old%20person&sti=o6rfkl7mb
zn6h93obh| 
 
4
 Nattiv, A., Loucks, A., Manore, M., Sanborn, C., Sundgot-Borgen, J., & Warren, M. (2007). American 
College of Sports Medicine position stand: the female athlete triad. Medicine & Science in Sports & 
Exercise, 1867–1882. 
 
5
 D'Cunha, Z., & Katakam, A. (2018, 3 8). Data check: How Indian women have consistently raised the 
bar over the last two decades. Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://scroll.in/field/871249/data-
check-how-indias-women-have-consistently-raised-the-bar-over-the-last-two-decades 
 
Suggested Reading 
 (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from World Health Organization: https://www.who.int/ 
 (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Ministry of Ayush: https://main.ayush.gov.in/ 
 Anspaugh, D., & Ezell, G. (2003). Teaching today’s Health. USA: Allyn & Bacon. 
 Drinkwater, B. (2000). “Women in Sport” Volume VIII of the Encyclopaedia of Sports Medicine. 
An IOC Medical Committee Publication-Wiley-Blackwell. 
 Fit India Fitness Protocols. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Ministry of Youth Affairs and 
Sports: https://yas.nic.in/fit-india-fitness-protocols 
 Muller, J. (2007). Health, Exercise and Fitness. New Delhi: Sports Publication. 

 [198] 
 National Health Mission. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare: https://nhm.gov.in/ 
 Pandey, P., & Gangopathyay, S. (1985). Health Education for School Children. Delhi: Friends 
Publication. 
 S.N. Ghosh. (1989). Hygiene and Public health. Calcutta: Scientific Publishing Company. 
 
 

 [199] 
UNIT-VI: TEST AND MEASUREMENT IN SPORTS 
Contents 
 Motor Fitness Test – 50 M Standing Start, 600 M Run/ Walk, sit and Reach, Partial Curl 
Up, Push Ups (Boys), Modified Push Ups (Girls), Standing Broad Jump, Agility – 4x 10 M 
Shuttle Run. 
 General  Motor  Fitness  –  Barrow  three  item  general  motor  ability  (Standing  Broad 
Jump, Zig Zag Run, Medicine Ball Put – For Boys: 03 Kg and For Girls: 01 Kg). 
 Measurement   of   Cardio-Vascular   Fitness   –   Harvard   Step   Test/Rockport   Test   - 
Computation  of  Fitness  Index:  Duration  of  the  Exercise  in  Seconds  x  100  5.5  x  Pulse 
count of 1-1.5 Min after Exercise. 
 Rikli and Jones - Senior Citizen Fitness Test 1. Chair Stand Test for lower body strength 
2.  Arm  Curl  Test  for  upper  body  strength  3.  Chair  Sit  and  Reach  Test  for  lower  body 
flexibility  4.  Back  Scratch  Test  for  upper  body  flexibility  5.  Eight  Foot  Up and  Go  Test 
for agility 6. Six Minute Walk Test for Aerobic Endurance. 
Learning Outcomes: 
After completing this chapter, you will be able to: 
 perform  50  M  Standing  Start,  600  M  Run/  Walk,  sit  and  Reach,  Partial  Curl  Up,  Push 
Ups (Boys), Modified Push Ups (Girls), Standing Broad Jump, Agility –  4x 10 M Shuttle 
Run 
 demonstrate Barrow three item general motor ability test 
 compute physical fitness Index through Harvard Step Test/Rockport Test 
 describe the procedure of Rikli and Jones - Senior Citizen Fitness Test 
Discussion 
Discuss with your group 
 What are the areas that a physical fitness test evaluates? 
 How many of you can test your own fitness? 
 What are the criteria that you will employ to test your own fitness? 
 What is the aim of testing for physical fitness? 
 Have you heard of motor fitness? What is it? How is it tested? 
 Have you heard about broad jump? 
 
 
 
 

 [200] 
 
Do you Know 
Test protocol is the correct procedure for carrying out a test. If a test is done incorrectly, it 
might affect the results. 
Valid A  test  is  valid  if  it  measures  what  it  sets  out  to  measure  e.g.,  a  test  for  upper  body 
strength should not measure leg strength.  
Motor fitness refers to the neuromuscular components of fitness, which enable a person to 
perform  successfully  at  a  particular  motor  skill,  game,  or  activity.  Specific  motor  fitness 
components  include  agility,  balance,  coordination,  power,  reaction  time,  and  speed.  Motor 
fitness is sometimes referred to as skill-related fitness. 
6.1.1  Motor Fitness Test 
 
Testing  motor  fitness  consists  of  measuring  of  all  components  of  motor  fitness  (agility, 
coordination,  balance,  speed,  reaction  time).  Motor  fitness  test  provides  to  the  student  a 
score  regarding  the  level  of  fitness,  effectiveness  of  any  training  programme,  and  present 
status, thereby motivating her/him to do better etc. 
Following tests are employed to test motor fitness: 
 
Start 
 
 
 
 
 
Up 
 
 
4x 10 M 
 
600 M 
 
 
 

 [201] 
6.1.2  50 M Standing Start: Boys and Girls 
Purpose: To determine running speed and acceleration of a student. 
Objective: To cover the set distance as fast as possible. 
Equipment: Flat and clean field with markings; stopwatch. 
Procedure:  There  will  be  distance  of  50  meters  between 
two straight lines – starting line and finishing line. 
At  least  two  officials  are  required  to  successfully  complete 
the  process,  one  who  stands  behind  the  standing  line  to 
give  commands  “On  your  mark”  and  “Go”  along  with  a 
downward sweep of her/his arm thereby giving visual signal 
to   the   other   official   who   stands   perpendicular   to   the 
finishing line to clock the timing. 
The  student  will  take  a  standing  start  and  run  as  fast  as 
possible to give her/his best time. 
Scoring:  The  total  time  taken  to  complete  the  distance  between  the  command  “Go”  and 
when the student crosses the finish line to nearest tenth of a second. 
6.1.3  600 M Run / Walk 
Purpose: To determine the endurance of a student.  
Objective: To cover the set distance as fast as possible.  
Equipment: Flat and clean field with markings; stopwatch. 
Procedure: Student  should  be  informed  about  the  distance  before  the  start  of  the  run/ 
walk. 
One  official  will  give  command  “On  your  mark”  and  “Go”  with  visual  signal  to  the  other 
official. The student will run or walk and cover the distance in the shortest possible time. 
The  test  may  be  done  in  a  group,  but  the  number  of  officials  must  be  the  same  as  the 
number of participants. 
Scoring: The  total  time  taken  to  complete  the  distance  between  the  command  “Go”  and 
when the student crosses the finish line to nearest tenth of a second. 
6.1.4  Sit and Reach Test 
Purpose: To determine trunk flexibility of a student. 
Objective: To stretch trunk as far forward as possible. 

 [202] 
Equipment: Sit and Reach Box; mat  
Procedure: Student should sit without shoes, with the soles of  her/his feet touching the sit 
and reach box. 
Both  knees  should  be  locked  and  pressed  flat 
to  the  floor  (tester  may  assist  the  subject  by 
holding the knees down). 
Student   to   place   both   arms   forward,   palm 
downwards without stretching. 
As  instructions  are  given  by  the  official  to  start 
the  test,  the  student  should  stretch  forward 
slowly,  reaching  as  far  as  possible  with  both 
hands   without   a   jerk   and   should   hold   the 
maximum stretch position for 2 seconds. Hands 
should remain at same level. 
Scoring:  The  score  is  recorded  to  the  nearest 
centimetre  that  is  the  distance  between  the 
initial position and final position. 
6.1.5  Partial Curl-Up 
Purpose: To determine abdominal strength and endurance of a student. 
Objective: To perform as many as curl-ups as possible in the given time. 
Equipment: Gym Mat with two parallel lines 6 inches apart; stopwatch. 
Procedure: Student should lie in supine position on the mat with knee flexed at an angle of 
90 degrees. 
Feet should be placed apart and hands should be placed straight and parallel to the body. 
 

 [203] 
The student will pull upper body, curling up at least 6 inches above the surface of the mat or 
6 inches towards the parallel strip. 
Movement should not be jerky and the upper body must come down slowly. 
The complete cycle of rising up and going back down will be counted as one curl-up. 
Scoring: Maximum number of  partial curl-ups completed without rest in  30 seconds will be 
recorded. 
6.1.6  Push Ups (Boys) and Modified Push Ups (Girls) 
Purpose: To determine upper-body endurance of a student. 
Objective:  To  perform  as  many  as  push-ups 
as possible in the given time. 
Equipment: Gym Mat. 
Procedure:   Male   students   will   take   face 
down   position   in   which   hands   should   be 
placed  slightly  apart  from  shoulder.  Knees, 
back  and  neck  must  be  rigid  and  straight.  In 
this  position,  the  student’s  palms  and  toes 
will touch the ground. 
The position will remain the same for Female 
students, except their knees should touch the 
ground. 
Student will lower the body by flexing elbows 
till  90°  flexion  at  elbow  joint  and  come  back 
to   initial   position.   In   both   positions,   back 
must  be  straight.  Remember,  in  the  starting 
position    stomach    should    not    touch    the 
ground. 
Scoring:  The  maximum  number  of  push  ups  recorded  without  rest  will  be  counted  as  the 
score. 
6.1.7  Standing Broad Jump 
Purpose: To determine explosive leg strength of a student.  
Objective: To perform horizontal jump as far as possible.  
Equipment: Flat and clean field with markings; measuring tape. 

[204] 
Procedure: Student  will  stand  behind  the  take  off  line,  keeping  both  feet  slightly  apart  and 
parallel apart to each. 
Picture source
1
 
The  student  will  then  lean  forward,  swinging  arms  back  and  bending  both  knees  to  gain 
momentum. 
The  jump  will  be  performed  by  extending  knees  and  swinging  arms  forward  to  provide 
forward drive. 
The   student   jumps   forward   as   far   as   possible,   landing   on   both   feet   without   falling 
backwards. 
Distance will be measured from the back of the heel to the take-off line. 
Scoring: The  longest  distance  jumped  –  the  best  of  three  attempts  will  be  considered  as 
score which will be measured in feet and inches. 
6.1.8  Shuttle Run (4x10 M) 
Purpose: To determine the agility and speed of a student. 
Picture source
2
 
Objective: To run back four times between two parallel lines as fast as possible. 
Equipmen
t: 2x2x4 inches wooden blocks; stopwatch; non-slip surface with markings of two 
parallel lines having distance of 10 meters. 

 [205] 
Procedure: Two  wooden  block  each  will  be  placed  behind  one  of  the  parallel  line  opposite 
the starting line. 
On  the  command  “ready”  and  “Go”  the  student  will  run  as  fast  as  possible  to  reach  the 
other line and pick up a block and return back to starting line. 
She/He will place first block behind the line and continuously run to get another one. 
Scoring: Record the best time out of two attempts. Score will be measured in seconds. 
Extension Activity 
Your school is holding trials for the following games.  Which of the tests will you conduct for the 
candidates and why? 
Game Motor Fitness Test Reason 
Kho-kho   
Kabbadi   
Basketball   
Football   
Badminton   
 
 
I. Tick the correct options. 
Q1.    Partial curl up is to test  . 
(a) agility and speed 
 (b)     leg strength and endurance 
 (c) abdominal strength and endurance 
 (d)     upper body strength and endurance 
Q2     Sit and reach test measures    _ . 
 (a) endurance 
 (b) flexibility 
 (c) strength 
 (d)     speed 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
Q1.    Write down the process to determine the upper body endurance. 
Q2.    Explain the process of 600meter run/walk. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
Q1.    What is general motor fitness? How can it be measured? 

 [206] 
 
 
Do you Know? 
General Instructions before Exercise/Testing 
Clothes- Students should wear comfortable, loose fitting sportswear during the test. 
Food- Students should take food at least three hours before testing. Plenty of fluids should 
be  taken  24  hours  before  testing.  Alcohol  and  caffeine  should  be  avoided  24  hours  before 
testing.  
Rest-  Students  should  take  proper  rest  and  sleep  on  the  night  of  testing.  Any  strenuous 
exercise should be avoided on the day of tests. 
Warming  up  and  cooling  down-  Students  should  do  proper  warm  up  and  cooling  down 
exercises before and after the testing respectively. 
Equipment-  Equipment  should  be  calibrated,  organized,  sterilized  and  tested  before  the 
test. Administration- Temperature should not be too hot, cold, or humid. All stationary item 
should be ready before the test. Students should be informed about the procedure of the test 
and consent should be taken well in advance. 
6.2.1  Barrow Motor Ability Test 
Barrow  motor  ability  test  was  developed  by  Harold  M.  Barrow  in  1953.  The  purpose  of  the 
study was to measure general motor fitness. The test has three items: 
(a) Standing Broad Jump, 
(b)     Zig Zag run and 
(c) Medicine Ball Put (for boys: 03 kg and for girls: 01 kg). 
 
 
 
Ball Put 
 
Test 
 
Run 
 
 

 [207] 
All  three  items  can  be  administered  through  circuit  method.  There  is  no  sequence  to  be 
followed. 
6.2.2  Item I: Standing Broad Jump 
You have already read about this test in 6.1.7  
6.2.3  Item II: Zig Zag Run 
Purpose: To determine agility and speed of the student. 
 
Picture Source
3
 
Objective: To complete a zig zag path as fast as possible. 
Equipment: Stopwatch; cones; and a flat and clean field with markings. 
Procedure: On the command “Go” student will run as fast as possible and complete zig zag 
pathway as illustrated in picture. 
Scoring: Record the best time out of two attempts. The score will be measured in seconds. 
6.2.4  Item III: Medicine Ball Put 
Purpose:  To  determine  strength,  power,  agility,  coordination,  speed 
and balance. 
Objective: To throw the medicine ball as far as possible. 
Equipment: Medicine  ball  for  boys-  3kgs  and  girls  –  1kgs;  measuring 
tape; flat and clean field with markings. 
Procedure: Student  will  hold  the  ball  as  per  guidelines  and  will  throw 
the medicine ball as far as possible using one hand. 

 [208] 
Scoring: Student will get three attempts and best will noted as score to the nearest foot. 
Norms of three item Barrow motor ability test for 17 to 20 years 
 
 
 
Extension Activity 
Try  the  following  Muscular  Strength  and  Muscular  Endurance  activities  with  your  partner. 
Note your findings.  
   
Exercise Number completed 
30 secs 
Number completed 
45 secs 
Intensity 1-10 Effort 1-10 
Press ups     
Sit ups     
Squats     
Plank     
Tricep dip     
 
  
 
Intensity is how hard you 
found the task. (10 is 
extremely hard, 1 is I could 
do it very easily) 
 
Effort is how hard you 
tried during the 
activity (10 is my 
hardest, 1 is without 
effort.) 

 [209] 
SBJ (inches) ZigZag Run (sec.) Medicine Ball Put (feet) T-Score 
Upto 68 29.5 and more upto 22 20 
69-72 29.4-28.7 23-25 25 
73-76 28.6-27.9 26-28 30 
77-80 27.8-27.2 29-31 35 
81-84 27.1-26.4 32-34 40 
85-88 26.3-25.6 35-38 45 
89-92 25.5-24.8 39-41 50 
93-96 24.7-24.0 42-44 55 
97-100 23.9-23.2 45-47 60 
101-104 23.1-22.5 48-51 65 
105-108 22.4-21.7 52-54 70 
109-112 21.6-20.9 55-57 75 
113 and above 20.8 or less 58 and above 80 
 
Norms  Reference:  Dr.  D.  K.  Kansal  (2008),  Textbook  of  Applied  Measurement,  Evaluation 
and Sports Selection, Sports and Spiritual Science Publication, Delhi, ISBN No.8190228234 
Do you know? 
What is Vo
2
 Max? 
The  maximum  rate  of  oxygen  used  by  heart,  lungs  and  muscles  during  the  exercise.  It  also 
known to measure aerobic capacity of an individual. 
 
 
  

 [210] 
I. Tick the correct options. 
Q1.    Which is not an item of Barrow motor ability test? 
 (a) Medicine Ball Put 
 (b)     Zig Zag Run 
 (c) Standing Broad Jump 
 (b) Push-ups 
Q2.    What is the weight of Medicine ball for boys in medicine ball put? 
 (a) 1 kg 
 (b)     2 kg 
 (c) 3 kg 
 (d)     4kg 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
Q1.    Explain an item of motor ability test for testing agility. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
Q1.    Explain the Barrow motor ability test. 
6.3.1  Harvard Step Test 
Harvard  step  test  was  developed  by  Brouha  in  1943  for  the  purpose  of  measuring  physical 
fitness  for  work  and  the  ability  to  recover  from  work.  The  test  was  originally  designed  for 
young men of college age. In the original validation of the step test Brouha tested 2200 male 
students at Harvard. 
 

 [211] 
Purpose: To determine aerobic fitness. 
Objective: To perform step test continuously without break for 5 minutes or until exhausted. 
Equipment: Bench or wooden block 20 inches in height; stopwatch; metronome. 
Procedure: Student will start test at the command “Go” and will step up and down, on and 
off the wooden block or bench at the rate of 30 steps per minutes for 5 minutes. 
If the student is unable to maintain the pace, then she/he is considered to be exhausted and 
the test is brought to an end. 
After completion of the test student sits down and tester takes the hearts beats between 1 
to 1½ minutes. 
Scoring: Fitness Index score will be determined by applying following equation: 
ୈ୳୰ୟ୲୧୭୬ ୭୤ ୲୦ୣ ୉୶ୣ୰ୡ୧ୱୣ ୧୬ ୗୣୡ୭୬ୢୱ ୶ ଵ଴଴
ହ.ହ ୶ ୔୳୪ୱୣ ୡ୭୳୬୲ ୭୤ ଵ ି ଵ.ହ ୫୧୬ ୟ୤୲ୣ୰ ୉୶ୣ୰ୡ୧ୱୣ
 = Fitness Index score 
Norms for Harvard Step Test 
Upto 49 Poor 
50-80 Average 
81 or Above Good 
 
Norms  Reference:  Dr.  D.  K.  Kansal  (2008),  Textbook  of  Applied  Measurement,  Evaluation 
and Sports Selection, Sports and Spiritual Science Publication, Delhi, ISBN No.8190228234 
6.3.2  Rockport 1-Mile (1.6 KM) Walk Test 
Rockport  Test  is  a  sub-maximal  field  test  to  estimate  VO2  max.  This  test  may  be  useful  for 
those  who  are  unable  to  run  due  to  sedentary  lifestyle  and/or  older  individuals  and/  or 
those of low fitness level and /or injury. 
Purpose: To estimate VO2 max. 
Objective: To complete one mile walk as fast as possible. 
Equipment: Flat and clean field with markings; stopwatch. 
Procedure:  Student  will  stand  behind  the  starting  line  and  on  command  “ready”  and  “Go” 
he/she will walk as fast as possible to complete one mile.
 
Heartrate  will  be  recorded  immediately  after  completion  of  the  walk  through  heart  rate 
monitor or 15 second count of radial artery whichever is feasible. Exercise heart rate should 
be below 120 bpm. 

 [212] 
To  estimate  VO2  max  timing  of  1  mile  walking,  gender,  age,  weight,  heart  rate  taken 
immediate after the walk are required. 
Scoring: Unit of VO2 max is ml · kg–1 · min–1 
VO2max = 132.853 − (.0769) × wt − (.3877) × age + (6.315) × gv − (3.2469) × 1 mile walk 
time − (.1565) × heart rate 
 
Wt = weight in pounds, age= age in years, gv= gender values (0 for female and 1 for males), 
timing of one mile walk in minutes (to hundred of a minute) and heart rate. 
Extension Activity 
Every student will prepare their own profile of fitness testing as per below format. 
 
 Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 
Standing Broad Jump     
50M standing start     
600 M Run/ walk     
Sit and reach Test     
4x10 M shuttle Run     
Push-ups     
Partial Curl Up     
Zig Zag Run     
Medicine Ball Put     
Fitness Index (Harvard 
step test) 
    
VO2 max through 
Rockport Test 
    
 
 
  

 [213] 
I. Tick the correct options. 
Q1.    The test duration for the Harvard fitness test is  . 
 (a) 3 minutes 
 (b)     4 minutes 
 (c) 5 minutes 
 (d)     6 minutes 
Q2.    To determine VO2 max which of the following is not required? 
 (a) Weight 
 (b)     Gender 
 (c) Age 
 (d)     Name 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
Q1.    What do you mean by aerobic fitness? 
Q2.    Write the procedure of Rockport 1 mile walk test. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
Q1.    Briefly describe the tests used for assessing cardio-vascular fitness? 
6.4.1  Rikli and Jones Senior Citizen Fitness Test 
The senior citizen’s fitness test (SFT) was developed by Rikli and Jones for older people aged 
between  60  to  94  years.  The  purpose  of  the  test  was  to  evaluate  functional  ability  and 
monitor the physical fitness status of older people and to identify problems and work on the 
weakness. This test should not  be practiced by those who have any medical conditions  like 
chest  pain,  dizziness,  high  blood  pressure,  heart  problems  etc.  This  test  is  economical  and 
easy to administer. The test includes the following items: 
1. Chair Stand Test for lower body strength 
2. Arm Curl Test for upper body strength 
3. Chair Sit and Reach Test for lower body flexibility 
4. Back Scratch Test for upper body flexibility 
5. Eight Foot Up and Go Test for agility 
6. Six Minute Walk Test for aerobic endurance 
Source of all Pictures
4
  
 

 [214] 
6.4.2 30 Second Chair Stand Test 
Purpose: To determine lower body strength. Objective: To complete maximum stands in 30 
seconds. 
 
Equipment: Straight back chair without arms; stopwatch. 
Procedure:  The  chair  should  be  placed  against  the  wall  or  somewhere  where  it  gets 
stabilized. 
Initially, the individual will sit on the chair, back straight, arms crossed and feet firmly on the 
floor shoulder width apart. 
On the command “Go” the individual will stand up completely, then return back to the initial 
position.  This  will  be  counted  as  one  stand.  The  individual  should  be  motivated  to  do 
maximum stands in 30 seconds. 
Scoring:  Maximum  number  of  complete  stands  will  be  counted  as  score. If  the  individual  is 
in half way of the stand and time is over, then it will be counted as a full stand. 
6.4.3  Arm Curl Test 
Purpose: To determine upper body strength. 
Objective: To complete maximum arm curls in 30 seconds. 
Equipment:  Straight  back  chair  without  arms;  Dumbbell  for  men-  8  pounds(3.6kgs)  and 
women- 5 pounds(2.3kgs); stopwatch. 
Procedure:  The  chair  should  be  placed  against  the  wall  or  somewhere  where  it  gets 
stabilized. 

 [215] 
The  individual  sits  on  the  chair  with  back  straight,  feet  on  floor,  holing  dumbbell  with 
dominant hand using handshake grip. 
On  the  command  “Go”  the  individual  flexes  the  elbow  or  curls  the  arm  with  full  range  of 
motion then returns back to its initial position. 
I
n the down position dumbbell will return to handshake grip. 
The individual can perform as many arm curls as possible in 30 seconds. 
Scoring: Maximum number of correct arm curls in 30 second will be counted. 
 
6.4.4  Chair Sit and Reach Test  
Purpose: To determine lower body flexibility. 
 
Objective:  To  stretch  the  lower  body  as  far  as  possible. Equipment:  Straight  back  chair 
without arms; 18 inches ruler. 
Procedure: The chair should be placed against the wall or somewhere where the chair gets 
stabilized. 
Participant  sits  on  the  chair  with  one  foot  flat  on  the  floor  and  the  other  leg  extended 
forward with the knee straight, heel on the floor, and ankle bent at 90°. 

 [216] 
The  participant,  then,  tries  to  touch  the  toe  of  that  foot  by  bending  at  the  hip  and  sliding 
her/his hands towards the toes. 
To clock score participant must hold that position for 2 seconds. 
Scoring:  Measurement  will  be  taken  between  extended  long  finger  and  tip  of  the  toe  and 
minimum  to  .5  inches  will  be  recorded  as  score.  If  fingers  cross  the  toe  then  +  will  be 
indicated before the score and  if the participant is unable to touch the toe, then – sign will 
be indicated. 
6.4.5  Back Stretch 
Purpose: To determine upper body flexibility 
 
Objective: To touch or overlap the finger of the both hands behind the back. 
Equipment: 18 inches ruler 
Procedure: In  standing  position  participant  will  place  one  hand  over  the  shoulder  and  one 
hand middle of the back and try to touch or overlap each other. 
Scoring: Measurement  will  be  taken  by  measuring  the  distance  between  the  tips  of  the 
middle  fingers.  If  the  fingertips  touch  then  the score  is  zero.  If  they  do  not  touch,  measure 
the  distance  between  the  finger  tips  (a  negative  score),  if  they  overlap,  measure  by  how 
much (a positive score). 
6.4.6  8 Foot Up and Go 
Purpose: To determine physical mobility (power, speed, agility and balance). 
Objective: To stand and walk 16 feet and sit back as fast as possible (without running).  
Equipment: Straight back chair without arms; cone; stopwatch, 
Procedure:  A  chair  should  be  placed  against  the  wall  or  somewhere  where  the  chair  get 
stabilized. 

 [217] 
 
The participant sits on the chair with both feet on the floor. 
At the command “Go” he/she walks as fast as possible (not running) and returns back after 
walking to and around the cone which is placed 8 ft away from the chair. 
There  should  be  enough  space  around  the  cone  from  where  participant  can  take  an  easy 
turn. 
Scoring: Two attempts will be made and the best score will be taken for record. Fastest time 
taken between command “Go” and return to the chair will be recorded. 
6.4.7  6 Minute Walk Test 
Purpose: To determine aerobic endurance 
 
Objective: To walk maximum distance in 6 minutes.  
Equipment:  Walking  area  of  20  yards  each  between  parallel  lines  connected  with  5  yards 
lines making rectangles; stopwatch; cone. 
Procedure: Participant will start walking after the command “Go” and continuously walk on 
the track for 6 minutes. 
He /she has to cover maximum distance in 6 minutes but without running. 
Scoring: Maximum distance covered in 6 minutes will be recorded as score 

 [218] 
6.4.8  2 Minutes Step Test 
Purpose: To determine aerobic endurance. 
 
Objective: To  count  maximum  number  of  steps  in  2  minutes. This  test  is  performed  as  an 
alternative  to  the  6-  minute  walk  test  for  people  who  use  orthopaedic  devices  when 
walking, as well as in the case of people who have difficulty balancing. 
Equipment: tape  for  marking  the  wall;  stopwatch;  wall. Procedure: The  participant  stands 
up straight next to the wall while a mark is placed on the wall at the level corresponding to 
midway between the patella (knee cap) and illiac crest (top of the hip bone). 
The participant then marches in place for two minutes, lifting the knees to the height of the 
mark on the wall. Resting is allowed, and holding onto the wall or a stable chair is allowed. 
Stop after two minutes of stepping. 
Scoring: The  total  number  of  times  the  right  knee  reaches  the  tape  level  in  two  minutes  is 
recorded. 
 
 
 
 

 [219] 
Normal Range of Score for Men 
 
Reference: The Journal for Active Aging, March April 2003 Page No. 28 
Normal Range of Score for Women 
 
Reference: The Journal for Active Aging, March April 2003 Page No. 28 
 

 [220] 
Do you Know 
We  can  improve  fitness  through  following  activities:  Muscular  Strength:  Jumps,  throws, 
weight training 
Muscular  Endurance: Pull ups, Push-ups, Sit-ups,  weight training Cardiovascular  Endurance: 
Long distance running, swimming, cycling Flexibility: Yoga Asana 
Speed: 10m, 30m, 50m, 100m sprint etc. 
Coordination:  ball  throw  and  catching,  kicking  and  stopping  ball  Agility:  Cone,  ball,  balloon 
and ladder drills 
 
Case Study 
Shyam,  Vinay  and  Ram  are  engaged  in  regular  fitness  activity.  Ram  runs  for  an  hour  every 
day,  Shyam  goes  to  the  Gym  for  a  workout  every  day  and  Vinay,  who  is  a  national  level 
football  player,  does  two  hours  of  vigorous  physical  fitness  every  day.  They  often  discuss 
various  aspects  of  their  daily  physical  routine.  Today  their  discussion  turned  into  an 
argument,  with  each  claiming  that  he  was  fitter  than  the  others.  They  meet  their  physical 
education  teacher  and  he  suggests  all  three  undergo  a  fitness  test  to  determine  their 
physical  abilities.  All  agree  and  the  teacher  administers  a  few  tests.  Their  results  are  given 
below: 
Test Shyam Score gym Vinay Score foot Ram run 
50 M Standing Start 7.1 seconds 6.4 seconds 6.9 seconds 
600 M Run/ Walk 2.14 minutes 1.40 minute 1.41 minute 
Sit and Reach 40’ 42’ 39’ 
Partial Curl Up 29 27 18 
Push Ups 22 19 13 
4x 10 M Shuttle Run 7.0 7.3 8.2 
Standing Broad 
Jump 
7’2” 7’8” 7’4” 
Zig Zag Run 29.2 21.6 24.1 
Medicine Ball Put 56 feet 55 feet 32 feet 
Harvard Step Test 
Index 
56 89 82 
 

 [221] 
Q. Which of the following friends had an ‘average’ score in Harvard step test?  
 (a) Ram 
 (b)     Shyam 
 (c) Vinay 
Q, Who  has  better  agility,  upper  extremity  strength  and  Physical  Efficiency  Index  scores 
among the three friends? 
 (a) Shyam 
 (b)     Vinay 
 (c) Ram 
Q. 4x10  m  shuttle  run  was  conducted  for  assessment  of  which  of  the  following  ability  of 
all three friends. 
 (a) Agility 
 (b)     Speed 
 (c) Endurance 
 (d)     Flexibility 
Q. Suggest an alternative test other than mentioned that of mentioned in the case study, 
for  assessment  of  the  strength,  speed  and  agility.  Give  your  reasons  for  choosing  the 
Test. 
 
I. Tick the correct options. 
Q1.    Which is not an item of Rikli and Jones Test? 
 (a) 8 Foot Up and Go 
 (b)     Sit and Reach test 
 (c) 6 Minute Walk Test 
 (d)     Arms Curl Test 
Q2.    What is the weight of dumbbell for men in arm curl of Rikli and Jones Test? 
 (a) 5 pounds 
 (b)     6 pounds 
 (c) 8 pounds 
 (d)     10 pounds 
 

 [222] 
II. Answer the questions briefly. 
Q1.    Explain any two test that form part of the Rikli and Jones Test. 
Q2.    Write down the purpose of all the tests that form a part of Rikli and Jones Test. 
III. Answer the questions in 150-200 words. 
Q1.    Discuss any three tests for testing the endurance and agility of senior citizens. 
 
References: 
 
1
 Education-Health-Science. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from http://education-health-
science.blogspot.com/p/shuttle-run.html 
2
 Standing Broad Jump. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Education-Health-Science: 
http://education-health-science.blogspot.com/p/standing-broad-jump.html 
3
 Zig-Zag Test. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from BrianMac Sports Coach : 
https://www.brianmac.co.uk/zigzag.htm 
4
Jones, R. a. (2002). Measuring functional: Senior Citizen Fitness Test. Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://www.dnbm.univr.it/documenti/OccorrenzaIns/matdid/matdid182478.pdf 
 
 
 
Suggested Reading: 
 
 Administration Manual. (2020, 10). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Khelo India: 
https://schoolfitness.kheloindia.gov.in/UploadedFiles/SampleData/AdminManual.pdf 
 Clarke, H. D. (1987). Application of Measurement to Physical Education. Englewood Cliffs, 
Prentic Hall. 
 Fit India Fitness Protocols. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Ministry of Youth Affairs and 
Sports: https://yas.nic.in/fit-india-fitness-protocols 
 Kansal, D. (2008). Text Book of Applied Measurement & Evaluation & Sports. New Delhi: Sports 
& Spiritual Science Publications. 
 Morrow, J. R. (2000). Measurement and Evaluation in Human performance. Human Kinetics. 
 Rikli, & Jones. (2003). Senior Citizen Fitness Test. The Journal for Active Aging. 
 
 

 [223] 
UNIT-VII: PHYSIOLOGY AND INJURIES IN SPORTS 
Contents  
Physiological factor determining component of Physical Fitness 
 Effect of exercise on Cardio Respiratory System 
 Effect of exercise on Muscular System 
 Physiological changes due to ageing 
 Sports injuries: Classification (Soft Tissue Injuries:(Abrasion, Contusion, Laceration, 
Incision, 
Sprain & Strain) Bone & Joint Injuries: (Dislocation, Fractures: Stress Fracture, Green Stick, 
Communated, Transverse Oblique & Impacted) Causes, Prevention& treatment 
 First Aid – Aims & Objectives 
 
Learning outcomes 
At the end of the chapter, you will be able to:  
 recognize the physiological factors determining the components of physical fitness 
 comprehend the effects of exercise on cardio respiratory system 
 know the effects of exercise on cardio respiratory system 
 figure out the physiological changes due to ageing 
 identify and classify sports injuries 
 recognize and demonstrate the aims and objectives of First Aid 
Discussion 
In groups, discuss 
 The injuries you have suffered on the Games field. 
 The Sport/Game you were playing when the injury occurred. 
 The cause of the injury. 
 The treatment. 
 Could the injury have been prevented? 
Share your information with the class. 
 
 
 

 [224] 
7.1.1  Physiological Factors Determining the Component of Physical Fitness  
Exercise  physiology  is  a  study  of  the  body’s  response  to  exercise.  In  the  human  body  we 
majorly study skeletal, muscular, nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, metabolic, respiratory, 
digestive,  urinary  and  reproductive  systems  which  are  somehow  affected  by  exercises. 
During  exercise,  all  systems  of  our  body  work  jointly  but  responses  of  these  systems  are 
independent. Metabolic system produces energy and also takes care of intake and output of 
energy. Cardiovascular system controls circulation, transports oxygen and energy to muscles 
and waste products from muscles. Respiratory system takes in air, diffuses oxygen to lungs 
and  muscle  tissue  and  removes  carbon  dioxide  from  body.  Neuromuscular  skeletal  system 
allows  body  movements  through  muscle  contraction.  Neuroendocrine  and  Immune  system 
help to maintain homeostasis of the body. To develop fitness, each component has different 
exercise, intensity and volume, so the responses of systems are different. Here we will study 
on three major physiological factors that determine the various components of fitness. 
7.1.2  Skeletal Muscles Factor 
Skeletal  muscles  are  made  up  of  muscles  fibres which  are  divided  into  two  categories  Slow 
twitch fibres or Type I fibres and Fast twitch fibres or Type II fibres. Mostly muscles contain a 
mix  of  both  fast  and  slow  twitch  fibres  and  proportion  of  theses  fibres  is  dependent  on 
genetics,  hormones  and  habits  of  exercises.  Composition  of  fibres  in  muscles  plays  a 
dominant  role  in  development  of  strength,  endurance,  and  speed  performance.  Skeletal 
muscles  have  four  properties  contractility,  excitability,  extensibility  and  elasticity  and  four 
contractile  characteristics  namely  maximal  force  production,  speed  contraction,  maximal 
power  output  and  efficiency  of  contraction.   These  characteristics  existing   in  muscles 
determine different components of fitness. 
Type I fibres or slow twitch fibres or slow oxidative fibres contain large numbers of oxidative 
enzymes,  have  more  capillaries,  higher  concentration  of  myoglobin  and  mitochondrial 
enzyme  than  fast  twitch  fibres  which  promote  aerobic  activity  and  resistance  against 
fatigue. Due to higher concentration of capillaries the colour of fibres becomes red and has 
greater  supply  of  blood.  Such  types  of  fibres  contract  at  low  rate  and  keep  contracting  for 
longer  duration  without  fatigue;  thus,  producing  large  amounts  of  energy  slowly.  Slow 
twitch fibres help in long distance running, swimming, cycling etc. 
Type  II  fibres or  Fast  twitch  fibres  or  Fast  glycolytic  fibres  contain  a  good  volume  of 
glycolytic   enzymes   which   promote   anaerobic   activity   but   due   to   less   number   of 
mitochondria  they  have  limited  aerobic  capacity  and  low  fatigue  resistance.  Fast  twitch 
fibres do not require blood supply to produce energy so their colour  is lighter as compared 
to slow twitch fibre. Such fibres have fast contraction rate, tire rapidly and consume lots of 

 [225] 
energy,  and  are  able  to  produce  small  amount  of  energy  quickly.  It  helps  in  anaerobic 
activities like jumps, throws, sprint etc. 
Muscles fibres play a dominant role in sports performance. Regular training can change the 
proportion of slow and fast twitch fibres. 
Sprinters  generally  have  a  higher  percentage  of  Type  II  fibres  and  a  lower  percentage  of 
Type I fibres, while endurance athletes have a higher percentage of Type I fibres and a lower 
percentage  of  Type  II  fibres.  There  are  variations  of  types  of  fibres  among  athletes 
participating  in  the  same  sports  also.  The  amount  of  force  generated  through  muscle 
contraction depends on the number and types of motor  units,  length of muscles,  nature  of 
neural stimulation of the motor units and contractile history of muscle. 
Do you Know? 
Sports Slow Twitch Fibre Fast Twitch Fibre 
Long Distance Runners 70 to 80 % 20 to 30 % 
Sprinters 25 to 30 % 70 to 75 % 
Non-Athletes 48 to 52 % 48 to 52 % 
 
7.1.3  Energy Production Factor 
Cellular respiration is a process in which ATP is formed through food. Main source of energy 
in  food  is  in  form  of  carbohydrates,  proteins  and  fats.  Each  has  different  complex  chemical 
process  to  form  ATP  energy.  During  exercise,  the  load  on  metabolic  system  increases 
manifold  because  of  increase  in  demand  of  energy  by  different  systems.  In  this  process, 
carbohydrates  give  instant  energy  as  compared  to  fats  and  proteins,  but  fats  give  a  larger 
amount  of  energy  as  compared  to  carbohydrates  and  proteins.  Higher  intensity  aerobic 
activity requires carbohydrates in the form of glucose and glycogen as fuel. 
Do you know? 
Metabolism: is a process of overall energy transformations occurring in the body.  
Anabolism: is a process of energy used to build tissues through proteins.  
Catabolism: is a process of breakdown of food and stores to produce energy for work.  
Carbohydrates  work  as  a  fuel  for  short  duration  exercise,  fats  are  utilized  for  long  duration 
exercises   and   proteins   contribute   a   small   but   important   proportion   of   nourishment. 
Basically,  three  energy  system  works  in  our  body  ATP-CP  system,  anaerobic  system  and 
aerobic  system.  ATP-  CP system  provides  energy if  the  activity  is  less  than  10  second.  Such 
activities are dynamic in nature and of very short duration and very intensive. They include 
jumps, throws, sprints, weightlifting, powerlifting etc. Anaerobic system provides energy for 

 [226] 
less  than  two  minutes,  in  activities  like  200m,  400m  races.  Aerobic  system provides  energy 
for  long  duration  activities  like  marathon,  football,  hockey  etc.  Aerobic  and  anaerobic 
systems  work  simultaneously,   but  which  system  is  predominant  depends  upon  type, 
duration,  intensity  of  exercise,  long  and  short-term  nutritional  status,  proportions  of  types 
of muscle fibres etc. 
7.1.4  Cardiorespiratory Factor 
Cardiorespiratory  system  is  combination  of  respiratory  and  cardiovascular  systems  which 
jointly work to transport oxygen to the cells and support metabolism by delivering nutrients, 
which   provide   energy   to   neuromuscular   system   and   neuroendocrine   system.   During 
exercise,  the  demand  for  energy  increases  and  to  meet  the  demand,  oxygen  is  required  in 
appropriate volume, to achieve the same. Demand of energy depends on intensity, duration 
and  type  of  activity.  To  match  the  same,  the  respiratory  system  parameters:  pulmonary 
ventilation,  external  respiration  and  internal  respiration  work  together.  The  cardiovascular 
response  to  exercise  is  directly  proportional  to  the  demands  of  the  skeletal  muscles  for 
Oxygen.  Maximal  oxygen  consumption  (VO2  Max),  Blood  pressure,  blood  volume,  oxygen 
diffusion and extraction, muscle and arterial blood flow etc. simultaneously  increase as per 
activity. 
7.1.5  Physical Fitness Components determined by the Physiological Factors  
Now we will understand how above-mentioned physiological factors determine fitness. We 
have  taken  four  components  of  physical  fitness  namely  strength,  endurance,  speed  and 
flexibility. 
The factors can be briefly understood as: 
Strength – Strength  component  has  varied  sub-types  like  maximum  strength,  Explosive 
strength,  Strength,  Endurance  etc.  Each  has  different  types  of  exercise,  intensity  and 
duration  so  physiological  factors  vary.  In  games  like  weightlifting,  jumps,  sprint  or  power, 
agility  and  strength  dominating  sports  where  force  production  is  high,  fatigue  is  quick,  and 
fast  twitch  fibre  percentage  must  be  high  in  muscles.  ATP-CP  system  or  anaerobic  system 
works to produce energy for strength training. Stroke volume (the volume of blood pumped 
out  of  the  left  ventricle  of  the  heart  during  each  systolic  cardiac  contraction)  is  a  vital 
parameter as far as cardiovascular system is concerned. 
 

 [227] 
 
Picture Source
1
 
Do you know? 
Nameirakpam   Kunjarani   Devi   (born   1   March   1968)   is   the   most   decorated   Indian 
sportswoman  in  weightlifting.  She  is  a  recipient  of  Arjuna  Award,  Padma  Shri  and  Rajiv 
Gandhi Khel Ratna. 
 
Endurance:  Endurance  also  varies  from  brisk  walk  to  running  to  marathon.  While  in  each 
activity intensity and duration varies, but one thing is common in all these activities: that is 
long  duration  and  low  fatigue  activity.  Activities  like  cycling,  swimming  or  long  duration 
activities  come  under  endurance  component.  Slow  twitch  fibre  percentage  must  be  higher 
in  comparison  with  fast  twitch  fibres  to  give  better  performance  in  endurance.  Aerobic 
system   provides   energy   in   endurance   training.   Maximal   oxygen   consumption   (Vo
2
), 
ventilation capacity plays dominating role in endurance training. 
Speed:  In  speed  training  percentage  of  fast  twitch  fibres  is  very  high  in  muscles,  These 
activities include 100m race, roller skating, or any movements that require work to be done 
in  minimum  possible  time.  A  vital  physiological  factor  to  give  best  speed  performance  is 
motor  neuron  stimulation.  The  brain  sends  a  message  to  the  muscles  to  act  fast.  To  meet 
the demand of energy, the ATP CP system works. 
 
 
 

 [228] 
 
Do you know? 
In 100 m sprint event: 
The  current  men's  world  record  is  9.58  seconds,  set  by  Jamaica's  Usain  Bolt  in  2009,  while 
the  women's  world  record  of  10.49  seconds  set  by  American  Florence  Griffith-Joyner  in 
1988 remains unbroken. 
 
Flexibility: Activities  of  stretching  or  yoga  require  a  good  deal  of  flexibility.  Physiological 
factors  like  elasticity  and extendibility  of  muscles,  type  of  joint,  homothermal  temperature 
are  key  determents  of  flexibility.  Muscles,  tendons  and  ligaments  are key  components  that 
affect  flexibility.  Muscles  groups  like  agonists,  antagonists,  neutralizers  and  stabilizers 
should understand for training purpose. 
Do you know? 
Aerobic Exercise is any type of cardiovascular conditioning. It can include activities like brisk 
walking,  swimming,  running,  or  cycling.  You  probably  know  it  as  “cardio.”  By  definition, 
aerobic  exercise  means  “with  oxygen.”  Your  breathing  and  heart  rate  will  increase  during 
aerobic activities. 
Anaerobic  Exercise is  any  activity  that  breaks  down  glucose  for  energy  without  using 

 [229] 
oxygen. Generally, these activities are of short length with high  intensity. The idea  is that a 
lot  of  energy  is  released  within  a  small  period  of  time,  and  your  oxygen  demand  surpasses 
the oxygen supply. 
ATP The Full form of ATP is Adenosine Triphosphate. ATP is a complex organic chemical that 
provides  energy  to  drive  many  processes  in  living  cells,  eg.,  nerve  impulse  propagation, 
muscle contraction, and chemical synthesis 
ATP-PCr Known   also   as   immediate   energy   system,   phosphagen   system,   and   alactic 
anaerobic  system,  the  ATP  –  PCr  system  is  the  main  energy  provider  for  a  high  intensity 
exercise  of  short  duration  up  to  10  seconds,  for  example  lifting  a  weight,  swinging  a  golf 
club, doing a push – up, and throwing a hammer 
Myoglobin a  red  iron-containing  protein  pigment  in  muscles  that  is similar  to  haemoglobin 
Mitochondrion any of various round or  long cellular organelles of most eukaryotes that are 
found  outside the nucleus, produce energy for the cell through cellular  respiration, and are 
rich in fats, proteins, and enzymes 
 
 
 
 
  
Extension Activity 
Think of an activity/exercise you would suggest for improving 
Muscular strength _______________________________ 
Power _______________________________ 
Speed _______________________________ 
Muscular endurance _______________________________ 
Agility _______________________________ 
Flexibility _______________________________ 

 [230] 
Respiratory System 
Cardiovascular System 
System 
7.2.1  Effect of Exercise on Cardiorespiratory System 
Cardiorespiratory system consists two parts. They are 
 
Cardiovascular  system - It  consists  of  three  parts:  the  heart,  blood  vessels  and  blood.  Its 
major  function  is  to  deliver  oxygen  and  nutrients,  remove  CO2  and  other  metabolic  waste 
products,  to  transport  hormones  and  other  molecules,  to  support  thermoregulation  and 
control of body fluid balance and lastly to regulate immune function. 
Respiratory  system - The  important  parts  of  the  respiratory  system  are  the  nose,  nasal 
cavity, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. Air can also enter the respiratory system 
through the oral cavity. Its major functions include, transporting air to the lungs, exchanging 
gases (O
2
 and CO
2
) between the air and blood and regulating blood pH. 
 
I. Tick the correct answers. 
Q1.                          system provide energy during 5000m race. 
 (a) ATP CP system 
 (b)     Anaerobic System 
 (c) Aerobic System 
 (d)     Endurance System 
Q2.    Slow twist fibres are of    colour. 
 (a) Red 
 (b)     White 
 (c) Black 
 (d)     Blue 
Q3.    Vo2 max is related to __________________     
 (a) Muscular system 
 (b)     Respiratory system 

 [231] 
 (c) Cardiovascular system 
 (d)     Energy production system 
Q4.    Which is NOT a property of muscles? 
 (a) Contractility 
 (b)     Excitability 
 (c) Extensibility 
 (d)     Durability 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
Q1.    Point out physiological factor for strength. 
Q2.    Briefly describe the energy production system in our body. 
Q3.    Explain different properties of muscles. 
Q4.    Write a few points on cardiorespiratory factors determining fitness. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1 Explain Physiological factors determining fitness. 
 
  

 [232] 
7.2.2  Effect of Exercise on Cardiovascular  
 
 
Short Term Effects of Exercise on Cardiovascular System 
1. Increased  Heart  Rate: Exercise  makes  the  body  work  harder  and  therefore  muscles 
require more  oxygen to continue to work effectively. This sudden increase in demand 
Effects of Exercise on 
Cardiovascular 
System
Short Term
Increase in Heart 
rate 
Increased blood 
circulation
Blood flow 
increases
Blood pressure 
increases
Stroke volume 
increases
Cardiac output 
increases
Long Term
Size and strength of 
Heart increases
Blood volume 
increases
Low level of 
accumulation of 
Lactic acid
Resting Heart rate 
decreases
Normal blood 
pressure
Increase in stroke 
volume and cardiac 
output
Increase in 
capillaries network 

 [233] 
of oxygen is met by an increase in blood circulation which  is achieved by the heart. In 
this process, the heart rate increases. 
2. Increased Blood Circulation: As the heart rate increases, blood circulation increases in 
the body to deliver the oxygen to muscles. As a result, the movement or flow of blood 
increases to tissues or organs.  
3. Increased  Blood  Pressure: Endurance  exercise  leads  to  increase  in  systolic  blood 
pressure  which  is  in  direct  proportion  to  the  increase  in  exercise  intensity.  The 
increased  systolic  blood  pressure  is  because  of  the  increased  cardiac  output  that 
accompanies  increasing  rates  of  work.  With  most  types  of  training  there  is  minimal 
change in diastolic blood pressure.  
4. Increased Stroke Volume: The volume of blood pumped during one beat (contraction) 
is  called  stroke  volume.  During  exercise,  stroke  volume  increases  as  more  oxygen  is 
required  which  is  accomplished  by  delivering  blood  to  muscles.  After  an  endurance 
training  program  capacity  of  heart  to  pump  blood  in  one  contraction  increased  by  20 
to 50 percent.  
5. Increased Cardiac Output: Cardiac output is the amount of blood pumped out by each 
ventricle  of  the  heart  in  1  minute.  It  is  the  product  of  the  heart  rate  (HR)  and  the 
stroke  volume  (SV).  Resting  cardiac  output  is  approximately  5.0  L/min  but  differs 
according  to  the  size  of  the  person.  Maximal  cardiac  output  varies  between  less  than 
20  L/min  in  sedentary  individuals  to  40  or  more  L/min  in  elite  endurance  athletes. 
Increase in heart rate and stroke volume results in increase in cardiac output.  
Long Term Effects of Exercise on Cardiovascular System 
1. Increased  Size  and  Strength  of  Heart: Continuous  aerobic  exercises  help  to  increase 
the strength and the size of heart which helps in better performance. It is also referred 
as cardiac hypertrophy. 
2. Low  Level  of  Accumulation  of  Lactic  Acid: Anaerobic  respiration  is  the  process  of 
converting glucose into energy without oxygen. During the conversion from glucose to 
energy,  lactic  acid,  a  waste  product,  is  created.  Lactic  acid  makes  muscles  tired  and 
painful.  Regular  exercises  prepares  muscles  to  adjust  to  working  with  lower  levels  of 
oxygen  and  the  circulatory  system  develops  itself  to  transport  oxygen  to  different 
parts of the body, thereby resulting in low levels of lactic acid.  
Extension Activity 
Discuss in your group 
The heart is an important part of the cardiovascular system. What can you do to keep your 
heart healthy? 

 [234] 
What should you avoid doing? 
What can happen if the cardiovascular system becomes unhealthy? 
Your  heart  is  a  muscle  about  the  size  of  your  fist.  Compare  it  to  other  muscles.  Can  you 
control it like you do the muscles in your arms or legs? 
Can you exercise it like you do other muscles? 
 
3. Decrease in Resting Heart Rate: Due to improved efficiency of the heart, it is required 
to  pump  less  blood  to meet  the  needs  of  the  body.  As  a  result,  the  heart  rate  at  rest 
decreases. It is also called as Bradi Cardia.  
4. Normal  Blood  Pressure: In  response  to  endurance  training,  there  can  be  substantial 
reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Regular exercise helps keep the 
blood pressure normal.  
5. Increase  in  Stroke  Volume  and  Cardiac  Output: Since  the  size  and  strength  of  the 
heart increases, heart pumps blood more efficiently with increase in stoke volume and 
cardiac output.  
6. Increase   in   Capillaries   Network: To   achieve   the   demand   for   oxygen,   capillaries 
network  increases.  Due  to  the  demands  placed  on  different  parts  of  the  body  during 
exercise,  the  capillary  density  at  muscle  sites  improves.  Increased  capillary  density 
allows  for  greater  oxygen  being transported  to  the  muscles,  improving  their  ability  to 
perform  intense  exercise.  Moreover,  exercise  helps  in  preventing  the  decline  in 
capillary function that happens with age. 
 
 
  
Picture Source
2
 
 

 [235] 
 
Picture Source
3
 
Do you know? 
Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the 
pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. 
7.2.3  Effect of Exercise on Respiratory System 
 
 
Effects of exercise 
on Respiratory 
system
Short Term
Respiratory rate 
increases
Tidal volume 
increases
Rate of 
exchange of gas 
increases
Long Term
Efficiency of 
respiratory 
muscles increases
Lung volume 
Increases
Pulmonary 
diffusion 
increases
Residual volume 
increases

 [236] 
Extension Activity 
Working in groups, create a working model of lungs. 
Research respiratory diseases and how they affect the function of the respiratory system. 
Can you alter your model to show what happens to the lungs with these diseases? 
Can you demonstrate on their models what has  been done to help people with  respiratory 
problems? 
 
Short Term Effects of Exercise in Respiratory System  
1. Respiratory  Rate  Increases: Our  body  requires  more  oxygen  during  exercise,  and  to 
meet  this  increased  demand,  the  respiratory  rate  (breathing  rate)  increases.  The 
normal respiration rate for an adult at rest is 12 to 20 breaths per minute. per minute, 
but during exercises it increases to 40 breaths per minutes.  
2. Tidal Volume Increases: The amount of air inhaled and exhaled in one breath is known 
as  tidal  volume.  Tidal  volume  increases  as  a  result  of  exercise  to take  in  more  oxygen 
and remove carbon dioxide from our body.  
3. Rate of Exchange of Gas Increases: Regular exercise increases the rate of exchange of 
gas in lungs.  
 Long Term Effects of Exercise in Respiratory System  
1. Increased  Efficiency  of  Respiratory  Muscles: Due  to  regular  exercise  efficiency  of 
respiratory  muscles  increases,  inhalation  and  exhalation  become  fluent.  This  helps  to 
meet the demand of oxygen.  
2. Increased Lung volume: Continuous exercises done for  long duration  help to  increase 
the  capacity  and  volume  of  lungs.  Vital  capacity  increases  almost  100  %  as  compared 
to that of a normal individual.  
3. Increased  Pulmonary  Diffusion: Pulmonary  Diffusion  refers  to  the  capacity  of  the 
lungs to allow oxygen and carbon dioxide to pass in and out of the blood. Regular sub-
maximal  exercise  training  develops  the  scope  of  increasing  the  exchange  of  gases  to 
oxygen in this process the size of the alveoli also increases.  
4. Increased  Residual  Volume: Residual  volume  is  the  volume  of  air  that  remains  in  the 
lungs after forceful expiration. Regular exercise increases residual volume that helps to 
exchange the gases in normal limits. 
 
 
. 

 [237] 
Do you know? 
Universal  donors  are  those  with  an  O  negative  blood  type.  Why?  O  negative  blood  can  be 
used in transfusions for any blood type. Types O negative and O positive are in high demand. 
Only  7%  of  the  populations  are  O  negative.  However,  the  need  for  O  negative  blood  is  the 
highest because it is used most often during emergencies. The need for O+ is high because it 
is the most frequently occurring blood type (37% of the population). 
 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. It  is  a  condition  typically  defined  wherein  an  individual  has  a  resting  heart  rate  of 
under 60 beats per minute (BPM) in adults. 
 (a) Bradycardia 
 (b)     Hypertrophy 
 (c) Alveoli 
 (d)     Perfusion 
2. It  is  the  amount  of  blood  pumped  out  by  each  side  of  the  heart  (actually  each 
ventricle) in 1 minute. 
 (a) Blood pressure 
 (b)     Cardiac output 
 (c) Blood volume 
 (d)     Anaemia 
3. The resting Cardiac output is approximately. 
 (a) 10.0 lt. 
 (b)     1.0 lt. 
 (c) 5.0 lt. 
 (d)     15.0 lt. 
4. The volume of blood pumped during one beat (contraction) is called, 
 (a) Blood flow 
 (b)     Stroke volume 
 (c) Veins and arteries 
 (d)     Capillaries 
5. Process of converting glucose into energy without oxyzen: 
 (a) Anaerobic respiration 
 (b)     Aerobic respiration 
 (c) Vital capacity 
 (d)     Stroke Volume 

 [238] 
7. Cardiac hypertrophy is 
 (a) plateauing of heart rate due to maximal exercise intensity 
 (b)     enlargement of heart due to chronic endurance training 
 (c) lowering of heart rate due to physical training 
 (d)     increase in ventricular volume because of exercise 
8.  What is the normal respiratory rate for an adult? 
 (a) 10 to 12 breath per minute 
 (b)     40 to 60 breath per minute 
 (c) 12 to 20 breath per minute 
 (d)     30 to 40 breath per minute 
9. The amount of breath per minute increases during exercise to: 
 (a) 20 breath per minute 
 (b)     40 breath per minute 
 (c) 30 breath per minute 
 (d)     10 breath per minute 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What is Stroke Volume? 
2. What is residual volume? 
3. What are the effects of exercise on the heart? 
4. Write briefly about the effect of training on 
 (a) Blood flow 
 (b)     Blood volume 
5. How does cardiac output respond to training? 
6. What is pulmonary diffusion? How does it respond to training? 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Write briefly about the effect of training on 
 (a) Lung Volume 
 (b)     Heart rate 
2. What is blood pressuer? Briefly explain its response to exercise. 
3. Define and explain the effect of exercise on: 
 (a) Total Volume 
 (b)     Stroke volume 
 

 [239] 
7.3.1  Effect of Exercise on Muscular System 
Exercise involves a series of sustained muscle contractions, of either long or short duration, 
depending  on  the  nature  of  the  physical  activity.  Effects  of  exercise  on  muscles  can  be 
considered short-term or immediate, both during and shortly after exercise; as well as long-
term, lasting effects. 
 
 
Short Term Effect of Exercises on Muscular system  
1. Increased blood supply: During exercise, in order to match demand of fuel to muscle, 
the supply  or  concentration of blood increases in the whole body or,  in the particular 
muscle group where activity is largely impacted.  
Effect of 
Exercises on 
Muscular 
System
Short Term 
Increased 
blood supply
Increased 
muscle 
temperature
Increase 
muscle 
flexibility
Accumulation 
of Lactate
Micro tears in 
muscle fibers
Long term 
Hypertrophy 
of Muscle
Increases in 
strength of 
ligaments and 
tendons
Increase in 
size and 
number of 
mitochondria
Increase in 
myoglobin 
storage
Increase in 
glycogen 
storage
Increase in 
oxidation/ 
metabolism
Increase in 
lactate acid 
tolerance 

 [240] 
2. Increased  muscle  temperature:  During  exercises  muscles  demand  energy,  which 
comes from contracting muscles. During the process, a lot of heat energy is generated 
which increases the temperature of muscles, and/ or the body.  
3. Increased  muscle  flexibility: Due  to  increase  in  blood  flow  and  rise  in  temperature, 
elasticity  of  muscles  increases.  Stretching  and  mobility  exercises  also  play  a  dominant 
role in increasing muscular flexibility.  
4. Accumulation  of  Lactate: Muscles  requires  oxygen.  If  blood  supply  does  not  provide 
appropriate  volume  of  oxygen  to  muscles,  it  leads  to  accumulation  of  lactate  acid  in 
muscles which result in pain, and soreness in muscles.  
5. Micro-tears  in  Muscle  Fibres: During  exercises  muscle  tissue  is  placed  under  stress 
which  results  in  micro-tears  in  muscle  fibres.  The  body  responds  by  repairing  the 
muscle fibres and making them larger. When a muscle gets bigger, the process is called 
hypertrophy.  
 
Picture Source
4
 
 
Long term effects of Exercise on Muscular system  
1. Hypertrophy   of   Muscle: Scientific   and   systematic   exercise   leads   to   increase   in 
thickness of muscle fibres that results in increase in muscle size also known as muscle 
hypertrophy.  

 [241] 
2. Increases in Strength of Ligaments and Tendons: regular exercise helps to strengthen 
bones, ligaments and tendons. This helps prevent injury and promotes performance.  
3. Increase  in  Size  and  Number  of  Mitochondria: Aerobic  exercises  leads  to  increase  in 
size  and  numbers  of  mitochondria  and  which  take  in  more  oxygen  and  produce  more 
ATP and energy.  
4. Increase in Myoglobin Storage: Long term effect of aerobic exercise is to increase the 
storage  of  myoglobin  which  transports  oxygen  to  mitochondria.  Large  amount  of 
myoglobin means large amount of oxygen and large amount of energy.  
5. Increase  in  Glycogen  Storage: Glycogen  is  generally  stored  in  muscles  and  liver. 
Regular  exercise  helps  the  body  to  increase  the  storage  of  glycogen  which  may  give 
continuous energy for 90 to 120 minutes.  
6. Increase in Oxidation/ Metabolism: Endurance exercise training increases the capacity 
skeletal muscle fat oxidation by increasing mitochondrial density. Long term exercises 
demand  a  lot  of  energy,  and  to  meet  this  demand,  metabolism  increases  due  to 
oxidation of fat. This leads to increase in provision of energy.  
7. Increase   in   Lactate   Acid  Tolerance: Regular   exercises   help   to   tolerate   pain   and 
sourness in muscles due to accumulation of lactate acid.  
I. Tick the correct answers: 
1. Which is not a long term effects of exercise on muscular system? 
a. Hypertrophy of muscle  
b. Increase metabolism 
c. Increase Myoglobin 
d. Increase blood supply 
 
2. Which is not a Short term effects of exercise on muscular system? 
a. Accumulation of Lactate 
b. Micro-tears in muscle fibers 
c. Increase muscle temperature 
d. Increase in lactate acid tolerance  
 
3. Physical activity helps to increase ________________________. 
a. Size of muscle 
b. Size of bone 
c. Size of brain 
d. Size of liver 
 
4. Increase in glycogen stored in muscle is an effect of  __________ 
a. Aerobic Training 
b. Anaerobic Training 

 [242] 
c. Cross Training 
d. Above all 
 
II. Answer the following questions briefly: 
1. Explain long term effects of exercise on muscular system 
2. Explain Short term effects of exercise on muscular system 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words: 
1. Describe the various effects of exercises on muscular system 
7.4 Physiological Changes Due to Ageing  
Ageing, an inevitable and extremely complex, multifactorial process, is characterized by the 
progressive degeneration of organ systems and tissues. It is largely determined by genetics, 
and influenced by a wide range of environmental factors, such as diet, exercise, exposure to 
microorganisms and pollutants. 
 
Muscular  Strength  - It  is  defined  as  the  maximal  force  that  a  muscle  or  muscle  group  can 
generate. Men and women usually attain their highest strength levels between ages 20 and 
40, the time when muscle cross-sectional area is largest. Concentric strength of most muscle 
groups declines, slowly at first and then more rapidly after middle age. Decline  in eccentric 
strength begins at a later age and progresses more slowly than those in concentric strength. 
 
Neural 
Function 
 
Muscular
Strength 
Cardiovascular 
Function 
Bone 
Mass 
Endocrine 
Changes 
Pulmonary 
Function 
Physiological Changes 
Due to Ageing 
Body  
Composition 

 [243] 
Strength  loss  begins  at  a  later  age  for  women  than  for  men.  A  40%  to  50%  reduction  in 
muscle mass from muscle fibre atrophy and actual loss of motor units between ages 25 and 
80 is the primary cause of reduced strength, even among healthy, physically active men and 
women. 
Neural  Function  - A  nearly  40%  decline  in  the  number  of  spinal  cord  axons  and  a  10% 
decline  in  nerve  conduction  velocity  reflects  the  cumulative  effects  of  ageing  on  central 
nervous  system  functioning.  These  changes  are  likely  to  contribute  to  the  age-related 
reduction  in  neuromuscular  performance  assessed  by  simple  and  complex  reaction  and 
movement times. Ageing most adversely affects the time required to detect a stimulus and 
process the information to produce the response. 
Endocrine  Changes  with  Ageing  - The  endocrine  system  consists  of  a  host  organ  (gland), 
minute  quantities  of  chemical  messengers  (hormones),  and  a  target  or  receptor  organ. 
Approximately  40%  of  individuals  aged  between  65  and  75  years  and  50%  of  those  older 
than   age   80   have   impaired   glucose   tolerance   leading   to   type   2   diabetes.   Thyroid 
dysfunction,  primarily  from  lowered   pituitary  gland  release  of  the  thyroid-stimulating 
hormone thyrotropin (and reduced output of thyroxine), is common among the elderly. This 
directly  affects  metabolic  function,  including  decreased  glucose  metabolism  and  protein 
synthesis.  Mean  pulse  amplitude,  duration,  and  fraction  of  secreted  growth  hormone  (GH) 
gradually decrease with ageing, a condition termed somatopause. 
Pulmonary Function - Mechanical constraints on the pulmonary system progress with age to 
cause   deterioration   in   static   and   dynamic   lung   function   measures.   Also,   pulmonary 
ventilation and gas exchange kinetics during the transition from rest to submaximal exercise 
slow substantially. 
Cardiovascular  Function  - Cardiovascular  function  and  aerobic  capacity  do  not  escape  age- 
related effects. Because of a  lower maximum heart rate, maximum cardiac output typically 
decreases  with  age  in  trained  and  untrained  men  and  women.  Reduced  peripheral  blood 
flow capacity accompanies age-related decreases in muscle mass. Sedentary living produces 
losses in functional capacity at least as great as the effects of ageing. 
Body   Composition   - In   physical   fitness,   body   composition   is   used   to   describe   the 
percentages of fat, bone, water and muscle in human bodies. After age 60, total body mass 
decreases despite increasing body fat. 
Bone  Mass- Bone  Mass  is  a  measure  of  the  amount  of  minerals  (mostly  calcium  and 
phosphorous)  contained  in  a  certain  volume  of  bone.  Osteoporosis  poses  a  major  problem 
with  ageing,  particularly  among  postmenopausal  women.  In  this  condition  it  produces  loss 
of  bone  mass  as  the  ageing  skeleton  demineralizes  and  becomes  porous.  Bone  mass  can 
decrease by 30% to 50% in persons older than age 60. 
 

 [244] 
Do you know? 
Oldest woman lived on earth was Jeanne Calmenta from France (born on 21 February 1875, 
died on 4 August 1997, lived for 122 years, 164 days). 
Oldest man lived on earth was Jiroemon Kimura from Japan (born on 19 April 1897, died on 
12 June 2013, lived for 116 years, 54 days). 
 
I. Tick the correct answers: 
1. Men and women usually attain their highest strength levels between the ages of 
 (a) 1 and 2 
 (b)     5 and 7 
 (c) 7 and 11 
 (d)     20 and 40 
2. It is a measure of the amount of minerals (mostly calcium and phosphorous) contained 
in a certain volume of bone, 
 (a) Body composition 
 (b)     Bone Mass 
 (c) Pulmonary function 
 (d)     Neuron 
3. The  chemical  substances  synthesized  by  specific  host  glands,  secreted  into  the  blood, 
and carried throughout the body are called 
 (a) hormones 
 (b)     sugar 
 (c) electrolytes 
 (d)     capillaries 
4. It is a disease in which bone weakening increases the risk of a broken bone, 
 (a) Measles 
 (b)     Osteoporosis 
 (c) Atherosclerosis 
 (d)     Beriberi 
5. Decrease in size of a body part, cell, organ, or other tissue is called 
 (a) Myopia 
 (b)     Atrophy 

 [245] 
 (c) Cardiac arrest 
 (d)     Cardiac cycle 
II. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words: 
1. Describe the changes in endocrine system due to ageing. 
7.5 Sports Injuries 
Sports  participation  and  exercise  engagement  have  always  witness  an  interruption  among 
athletes towards active participation or lead to painful experience due to some or the other 
form  of  injuries.  The  injuries  may  be  due  to  incorrect  movement,  hitting  or  colliding  with 
equipment  or  aggressive  sporting  actions  like  diving  and  sliding,  overtraining  or  lack  of 
conditioning. All these injuries caused due to different reasons may not be of the same type, 
which means it may need different remedies and specific understanding towards each injury 
to  avoid  and  prevent  such  injuries.   The  injury  in  sports  and  exercise  refers  to  the  physical 
damage  caused  to  tissue,  bone  or  any  other  organ  of  the  body  while  in  action  and  further 
leading  to  withdrawal  from  participation  or  experience  pain  while  performing  movement 
actions.   
Definitions 
An  athletic  injury  is  defined  as  “some  physical  damage  or  insult  to  the  body  that  occurs 
during  athletic  practice  or  competition  causing  a  resultant  loss  of  capacity  or  impairing 
performance.” Morris (1984)
5
 
a sports injury may be defined as damage to the tissues of the body that occurs as a result of 
sport or exercise. IOC manual of sports injuries (2012)
6
 
Sports  injury  may  be  define  as  any  stress  or  overstretch  put  on  soft  tissues  or  bone  on/off 
the  field   resulting  pain  and  hinder  performance.  Cut,  tear,  overstretching  of  tissues, 
breakage  of  bone  or  dislocation  of  joints  are  common  injuries  in  sports,  lets  try  to 
understand these classifications: 
The  injuries  that  occur  during  sport,  athletic  activities  or  during  certain  exercises.  The  risk 
for sports injuries occur if 
 
 

 [246] 
 
7.5.1  Classification of Sports Injuries 
Sports Injuries can be classified according to the cause of the injury: 
1. Direct  Injuries: They  are  sustained  from  an  external  force  causing  injury  at  a  point  of 
contact. 
2. Indirect  Injuries: It  usually  involves  the  athlete  damAgeing  the  soft  tissues  such  as 
ligaments tendons or muscles of the body through internal or external force. 
3. Soft Tissue Injuries: Any injuries to skin muscles or ligaments are soft tissue injuries. 
4. Hard Tissue Injuries: Injuries that occur in bones and cartilages. 
5. Overuse  Injuries: They  are  sustained  from  continuous  or  repetitive  stress,  incorrect 
technique or equipment or too much training. 
Extension Activity 
Working in groups discuss 
Have you ever had a sports injury? How did you get it? 
Are there any ways for fellow athletes to avoid similar injuries? 
Why is it important to take time to heal after a sports injury? 
Why is it not a good idea to ignore any pain that you feel while playing a sport? 
Why should you warm up before playing a sport? What can happen if you don’t warm up? 
 
 
Don't warm up 
properly before 
Exercise 
 
Haven't been 
regularly active 
 
You 
 
 
Overtraining 

 [247] 
7.5.2  Types of Sports Injuries 
 
 
Injuries Types 
Skin injuries Abrasion – injury caused by falling on rough or firm surface. 
Laceration – tears in the skin. 
Incision – cut by a sharp edge of an object. 
Puncture wound – pierced by a sharp and pointed object. 
Avulsion – tearing away of a part of the skin. 
Soft tissue injuries (eg., 
muscles, ligaments) 
Contusion – bruise caused by a direct blow to some part of the 
body.  eg.,  knee  of  a  player  knocks  against  the  thigh  of  another 
person. 
Sprain –  injury  of  ligament  of  joints,  caused  by  the  violent 
overstretching  of  ligament  in  a  joint  or  the  movement  of  the 
joint   in   abnormal   directions.   It   is   characterised   by   pain, 
tenderness, swelling at the joint. 
Strain –   injury   of   muscle   or   tendon,   three   types–   mild, 
moderate, severe. 
 
Microtrauma 
and macro 
trauma 
 
Acute 
and 
 
 
Minor/ 
moderately 
serious 
Sports 
Injuries 
Soft tissue 
and Hard 
tissue 
and 
Major 

 [248] 
Joint injuries Joint injuries are very common in sports they are known as joint 
dislocation.   “Dislocation   is   the   displacement   of   contiguous 
surfaces of two or more bones which are in a joint.” It is caused 
by an external force which forces the joint to move beyond the 
limits  of  a  joint.  If  the  joint  is  forced  to  move  in  an  abnormal 
direction,   this   dislocation   can   be   a   complete   or   a   partial 
displacement of the bones. 
Bone injuries Fractures (Fracture is a break in the continuity of the bone. The 
fractures  can  be  open/compound  fracture  or  a  closed/simple 
fracture. Severity of the fracture varies from a mild crack in the 
bone to the severe shattering of the bone into many pieces. 
7.5.4  Soft Tissue Injuries 
A soft tissue injury is the damage of muscles, ligaments and tendons throughout the body. 
 
Abrasion: 
Abrasion injuries most commonly occur due to moving contact with a rough surface, causing 
a grinding or rubbing away of the upper superficial layers of the epidermis. 
Cause -  Abrasion  injuries  commonly  occur  when  exposed  skin  comes  into  contact  with  a 
rough surface, causing a grinding or rubbing away of the upper layers of epidermis. 
 
Incision Sprain 
Strain 
Laceration Contusion 
Abrasion 
Type of soft tissue injuries 

 [249] 
Treatment -  Clean  the  surface  of  the  affected  part.  Stop  bleeding  at  the  earliest  by 
compression bandages. Anti-tetanus injection should be provided. 
Contusion: 
It is the type of hematoma, which refers to any collection of blood outside of a vessel. 
Cause - When a part of the body is struck by enough force to crush underlying muscle fibers 
and  connective  tissue  without  breaking  the  skin,  a  contusion  may  occur.  It  can  be  due  to  a 
blow from a collision with a player or a piece of equipment or because of a heavy fall. 
Prevention - All the safety gear to be worn upon while playing (Helmet, anal guards,) should 
be worn. 
 
Treatment - Non-steroidal anti- inflammatory drugs such as Ibuprofen, or other medications 
for pain relief as prescribed by the doctor. 
Laceration: 
The irregular tear-like wounds caused by some blunt trauma. 
Cause –  Mostly,  laceration  is  the  result  of  the  skin  hitting  an  adjacent  object,  or  an  object 
hitting the skin with force. 
Prevention -   Proper   personal   equipment,   including   eye   protection   can   be   helpful   in 
preventing the same. 
T
reatment -  Clean  the  surface  of  the  effected  part.  Stop  bleeding  at  the  earliest  by 
compression bandages. 

 [250] 
 
Strain: 
A  strain  is  an  injury  to  either  a  muscle  or  a  tendon  generally  caused  by  overuse,  force,  or 
stretching. Depending on the severity of the injury, a strain may be a simple overstretch  of 
the  muscle  or  tendon,  or  it  can  result  in  a  partial  or  complete  tear.  A  strain  could  be  an 
acute or chronic soft tissue injury that is a twist, pull or tear of a muscle or the tendon. 
Cause -  Strains  occur  suddenly  (acute  strain)  or  develop  slowly  over  time  (chronic  strain). 
CauseIt includes lifting of heavy objects, running, jumping, throwing etc. 
Prevention - Regular stretching and strengthening exercise for any kind of sport can be the 
preventive measure for strain. 
Treatment - It can be managed by applying ice packs and maintaining the strained muscle in 
a stretched position. (RICE: rest, ice, compression and elevation). 
 
Sprain: 
Sprain is the stretching or tearing of ligaments, the fibrous tissue that connects bones in the 
joints. A sprain occurs when you overextend or tear a ligament while surely stressing a joint. 
The most common location for a sprain is in your ankle. 
Cause - A sprain occurs when one overextends or tears a ligament while severely straining a 
joint. 
Prevention - Regular stretching and strengthening exercises for any kind of sport can be the 
preventive measure for such kind of sports injury. 

 [251] 
 
Treatment – RICE (rest, ice, compression and elevation). 
Incision: 
An incision is a cut made into the tissues of the body to expose the underlying tissue, bone 
or organ. 
Cause -  Can  be  caused  by  a  clean,  sharp-edged  object  –  such  as  a  knife,  razor  or  glass 
splinter. 
Prevention - The area should be free from the sharp edges. 
Treatment - Gently wash the affected area with soap and water to remove the dirt. Dry the 
incision with a clean, fresh towel before applying the dressing. 
 
7.5.5  Hard Tissue Injuries 
An injury to the skeletal system of the body is termed as the hard tissue injury. They are the 
injuries where the bone fractures means the bone either cracks or breaks. 

[252] 
DI
SLOCATION 
Dislocations are joint injuries that force the ends of your bones out of position. The cause is 
often a fall or a blow, sometimes from playing a contact sport. A joint dislocation, also called 
luxation,  occurs  when  there  is  an  abnormal  separation  in  the  joint,  where  two  or  more 
bones  meet.  A  partial  dislocation  is  referred  to  as  a  subluxation.  Dislocation  can  be  caused 
by  a  trauma  (accident  or  fall)  or  the  weakening  of  muscles  and  tendons.  A  dislocated  joint 
can be treated through medication, manipulation, rest or surgery. 
Causes  - Trauma  that  forces  a  joint  out  of  place  causes  a  dislocation.  Accidents,  falls,  and 
contact  sports  such  as  football  are  common  causes  of  this  injury.  Dislocations  also  occur 
during  regular  activities  when  the  muscles  and  tendons  surrounding  the  joint  are  weak. 
These  injuries  happen  more  often  in  older  people  who  have  weaker  muscles  and  balance 
issues. 
Symptoms  - Symptoms  of  a  dislocation  vary  depending  on the  severity  and  location  of  the 
injury. The symptoms of a dislocated joint include: 
Pain
Swelling
Bruising
Instability of the joint
Loss of ability to move the joint
Visibly deformed joint (bone looks out of place)
Treatment  - Treatment  can  vary  based  on  the  severity  of  the  injury,  and  the  joint  that  is 
dislocated. Applying ice and keeping the joint elevated can help reduce pain while you wait 
to see a doctor. Treatment includes: 
Fractures: 
Stress fractures 
Greenstick 
Comminuted 
Transverse 
Oblique 
Impacted 
Dislocation 
Types of hard tissue injuries 

 [253] 
 Medication:   Your   doctor   may   recommend   medication   to   reduce   pain   from   a 
dislocation 
 Manipulation: A doctor returns the bones to their proper places. 
 Rest: Once the joint is back in place, you may need to protect it and keep it immobile. 
Using a sling or splint can help the area heal fully. 
 Rehabilitation:   Physical   therapy   exercises   strengthen   the   muscles   and   ligaments 
around the joint to help support it. 
 Surgery: Your doctor may recommend surgery if: 
 Manipulation does not work to put the bones back in place. 
 The dislocation damaged blood vessels or nerves. 
 The dislocation damaged bones, tore muscles or ligaments that need repair. 
 
FRACTURES 
A  fracture  is  a  break  in  a  bone.  Fractures  are  caused  by  a  direct  impact,  such  as  a  fall  or  a 
severe tackle. Stress fractures develop over time and are caused by overuse. 
Stress fracture: 
Stress  fractures  may  occur  because  of  overuse  injuries  and  the  failure  to  have  adequate 
equipment to protect the body. 
Causes - Stress fractures often result from increasing the amount or intensity of an activity 
too quickly. 
Prevention - Low impact activities added to exercise regimen to avoid repetitively stressing 
a particular part of the body. 

[254] 
Treatment -  Rest,  cold  therapy  ice  packs,  cold  compresses,  apply  ice  to  the  injured  area, 
anti- inflammatory medications such as Ibuprofen, aspirin etc and a recovery time of 6 to 8 
weeks is required for healing. 
Greenstick: 
A 
fracture in a young, soft bone, in which the bone bends. 
Causes - These fractures most commonly occur with a fall. 
Prevention -  Promotion  of  regular  exercise,  ensuring  the  child’s  safety  by  providing  proper 
safety equipment and adequate calcium in the child’s diet can also help to prevent this kind 
of fracture.  
Treatment -  Removable  splints  result  in  better  outcomes  than  casting  in  children  with  – 
lorus fractures of the distal radius. 
Comminuted: 
A fracture in which a bone is broken, splinted or crushed into number of pieces. 
Causes -  Direct  and  indirect  trauma  or  violence  can  be  causes  for  commutated  fracture. 
Prevention -  Maintaining  strong  bones  by  eating  food  that  is  rich  in  calcium  and  regular 
exercise can help in the prevention of this type of fracture. 

 [255] 
Treatment - An X-ray is important for diagnosing of the condition. An open reduction when 
the bone fragments are jammed-together using surgical nails, wire plates etc. is required for 
commutated fracture. 
 
Transverse: 
Transverse fracture is when there is a straight break right across a bone. 
Causes -  When  a  large  amount  of  force  is  transmitted  directly  ie.,  perpendicularly  to  the 
bone.  
Prevention - Physical activity and weight bearing exercises will make the bones stronger and 
denser.  Bones  can  also  be  strengthened  by  eating  foods  rich  in  calcium  and  taking  regular 
exercise. 
Treatment - Can be treated at home along with rest and medicine. A back brace (called TSL) 
or abdominal binder may be prescribed to reduce the pain by limiting motion at the fracture 
site. 
 
Oblique: 
Oblique fracture is one in which the bone breaks diagonally. Causes - This fracture is usually 
caused by an injury to the bone as the result of a fall, accident or other trauma. 

 [256] 
Prevention -  Bones  can  be  strengthened  by  eating  food  rich  in  calcium  and  exercising 
regularly to help prevent this type of fracture. 
Treatment -  It  depends  upon  the  severity  of  the  crack  or  break.  Anti-  inflammatory 
medication, reduction (Resetting the bone) can also help to some extent. 
 
Extension activity 
Write  down  the  examples  of  dislocation  and  fracture  on  the  various  body  parts  and  its 
treatment. 
 
Impacted: 
This type of fracture occurs when the broken ends of the bones are jammed together by the 
force of the injury. 
Causes - It is caused mainly when someone falls from height with a great impact. 
Prevention –  Increased  physical  activity,  weight  bearing  exercises  and  maintaining  good 
intake of calcium in food can help in preventing this type of fracture. 
Treatment - In an impacted fracture the bones get broken into fragments. Therefore, a sling 
or  a  splint  may  be  required  to  keep  the  broken  bones  in  place,  so  that  movement  of  the 
sharp ends  of the  broken bone is  prevented. This is essential to  prevent further damage to 
the bone. 
 

 [257] 
 
I. Tick the correct answers: 
1. A sprain is an injury to: 
 (a) Muscle 
 (b)     Tendon 
 (c) Ligament 
 (d)     Bone 
2. A bone fracture is an example of injury to 
 (a) Skin 
 (b)     Soft tissue 
 (c) Hard tissue 
 (d)     Eyes 
3. A soft tissue injury damages, 
 (a) Ligaments and tendons 
 (b)     Bone 
 (c) Cartilage and muscles 
 (d)     Carpals 
4. A fracture in which the bone breaks diagonally, 
 (a) Greenstick 
 (b)     Impacted 
 (c) Oblique 
 (d)     Transverse 
II. Answer the following questions briefly: 
1. What is communated fracture? Write its cause, prevention and treatment. 
2. What is a sprain? Write its cause, prevention and treatment. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150–200 words: 
1. Name the more common types of fractures and describe them. 
2. What is a soft tissue injury? Name four types of soft tissue injury and describe it. 
 

 [258] 
7.6.1  First Aid 
The term was officially adopted in England for the first time in 1879 by St. John’s Ambulance 
Association. It refers to the treatment which is given to the casualty suffering from either a 
minor or serious illness or injury, to preserve life, prevent the condition from worsening, or 
to   promote   recovery.   It   includes   initial   intervention   in   a   serious   condition   prior   to 
professional   medical   help   becomes   available,   such   as   performing   cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation  (CPR)  while  waiting  for  an  ambulance,  as  well  as  the  complete  treatment  of 
minor  conditions,  such  as  applying  a  plaster  to  a  cut.  A  First  aid  is  generally  performed  by 
someone with basic medical training.  
Do you Know? 
The Red Cross and Red Crescent are still the largest providers of First Aid worldwide. 
 
Extension Activity 
Do you know how to apply a bandage? 
• Do you know what treatments are given for bruises and cuts? 
• Find out, discuss in your class and demonstrate. 
 
First  aid
  is  the  process  of  carrying  out  the  essential  emergency  treatment.  It  is  immediate 
and temporary care given to the victim of accident, injury or sudden illness. 
The  person  who  gives  treatment  to  the  person  suffering  from  a  disease  or  an  accident,  to 
improve  his condition is called an  ‘aides’ and the medical treatment given as aid  is called – 
the ‘first aid’. 
The  initial  assistance  given  to a  victim  of  an  injury  or  illness,  comprises  of  relatively  simple 
techniques that can be performed with rudimentary equipment. 
First Aid can be carried out by any person until professional medical assistance arrives. 
Do you Know? 
The basic objectives of First Aid are: 
• to give immediate care. 
• to protect the casualty from further harm. 
• to relieve pain. 
• to promote recovery. 
The  recovery  is  promoted  as  the  heart  rate  goes  down,  which  in  turn  prevents  blood  loss 
from the victim’s body. 
 

 [259] 
 Its purpose is to preserve life, assist recovery and prevent aggravation of the condition, 
until  the  services  of  a  doctor  can  be  obtained  or  during  transport  to  hospital  or 
casualty’s home. 
 It is something which means what other people can do for the casualty when he/she is 
unable to move, the help provided to the casualty is known as First Aid. 
 First  Aid  helps  ensure  that  the  right  methods  of  administering  medical  assistance  are 
provided. 
 First Aid is the immediate temporary care given to the victim of an accident or sudden 
illness. 
 Its  basic  purpose  is  to  provide  immediate  medical  aid  by  a  competent  and  qualified 
medical personnel till the casualty reaches Hospital. 
Aims and Objectives 
1. To  prepare  properly for  any  emergent  situation  to  avoid  errors  and  act  quickly  and 
calmly.  
2. To assess and care life-threatening conditions first   
3. To minimize further injury, infection and complications  
4. To make the victims comfortable as possible which enable him to save energy.  
5. To transport the victim to a medical facility as per necessity.  
 
The key guiding aims and objectives of first aid is given below: 
 
 
  
3 P’s 
Promote 
Recovery 
 
Preserve Life 
 
Prevent further 
Injury 

 [260] 
7.6.2  P.R.I.C.E. 
The  traditional  protocol  of  dealing  with  sports  injury,  R.I.C.E.,  has  now  been  modified  to 
P.R.I.C.E. This refers to the addition of the word “Protection” to Rest, Ice, Compression and 
Elevation. Protecting the injured area from further damage is crucial to the healing process. 
Protection  
Protect the affected area from further injury by limiting or avoiding weight-bearing through 
the use of crutches, a cane, or hiking poles. Partially immobilizing the injured area by using a 
sling, splint, or brace may also be a means of protection. 
Rest 
 S
top  using  injured  part  or  discontinue  activity.  It  could  cause  further  injury,  delay 
healing, increase pain and stimulate bleeding. 
 Use crutches to avoid bearing weight on injuries of the leg, knee, ankle and foot. 
 Use splint for injuries of the arm, elbow, wrist and hand. 
Ice 
 Ice application contracts blood vessels. 
 Helps stop internal bleeding from injured capillaries and blood vessels. 
 Hastens healing time by reducing swelling around injury. 
 Keep damp or dry cloth between skin and ice pack. 
 Do not apply ice for longer than 15 to 20 minutes at a time. 
 Apply every hour for 10 to 20 minutes. 
 Apply ice as long as pain or inflammation persists. 
Compression 
 Hastens healing time by reducing swelling around injury. 
 Decreases seeping of fluid into injured area from adjacent tissues. 
 Use elasticised bandage, compression sleeve, or cloth. 
 Wrap injured part firmly. 
 Do not impair blood supply. 
 Too tight bandage may cause more swelling. 
 Wrap over ice. 
 Loosen the bandage if it gets too tight. 
 
 

 [261] 
Elevation 
 Elevate injured part above the level of heart. 
 Decreases swelling and pain. 
 Use objects and pillows. 
Case Study 
In  sports,  injuries  are  inevitable.  Even  when  athletes  are  in  peak  physical  form,  a  single 
careless  step,  awkward  landing,  or  violent  collision  can  bend  joints  and  limbs  in  ways  they 
aren’t meant to move. When those serious injuries happen to athletes, it makes the return 
tougher.   Read   about   these   two   athletes   who   suffered   injuries   and   made   amazing 
comebacks.  
Saina Nehwal 
Saina Nehwal suffered a career-threatening knee injury ahead of the Rio Olympics and had 
to  undergo  a  surgery  in  August  2016,  but  she  fought  back  to  recover  and  play  on  the 
International circuit again. She was ranked number one  in 2015 when she injured her knee 
badly during a match. It was a career-threatening injury because badminton players left the 
game  at  the  age  of  26.  So,  it  was very  difficult  to  make  comeback  but she  fought  back  and 
recovered  from  injury  and  won  Malaysia  masters  and  other  international  tournaments.  “I 
never  knew  what  surgery  was  but  after  I  went  through  it  I  realised  how  tough  returning 
from  it  can  be.  You  lose  movements,  touch  and  again  to  get  back  to  your  full  fitness  is 
extremely  tough.”  In  an  interview  shortly  after,  she  said,  “I  never  knew  what  surgery  was 
but  after  I  went  through  it  I  realised  how  tough  returning  from  it  can  be.  You  lose 
movements,  touch  and  again  to  get  back  to  your  full  fitness  is  extremely  tough.  It  takes 
more  time  than  usual,  you  can’t  straightaway  recover  and  win.  It  is  not  only  physical  but 
mental  too.  Even  now  there  is  always  this  tension  and  fear  that  I  might  pick  up  an  injury 
again.” She added, “My injured knee is far from what it was earlier, but I’ve understood how 
to get the most from it.”  
Ramandeep Singh 
Indian  hockey  team  striker  Ramandeep  Singh  said  the  hunger  to  wear  India  colours  again 
kept  me  motivated  and  strong  while  he  was  battling  injury.  Ramandeep  made  a  comeback 
to the national squad after recovering from a career-threatening injury that kept him in the 
sidelines for nearly a year. He sustained a full thickness condral fracture-injury in the centre 
of his right knee during India’s match against Pakistan at the FIH Men’s Champions Trophy in 
June 2018. “I think what really kept me strong through this entire period was my hunger to 
wear the India jersey again. I just did not want to give up on this desire and kept working on 
gaining  full  match  fitness,”  said  Ramadeep.  On  his  selection  in  the  Indian  Team  he  says. 
“Now that I have been selected, it reinstates my belief and confidence. I am really excited to 

 [262] 
play  for  India  again.  I  have  literally  counted  days for  this  moment  and  I will  do  my  best  for 
the team which stood by me during my struggle over the past year.”  
Q. What injuries did the two athletes sustain? 
 (a) Injured back 
 (b)     Injury to the knee 
 (c) Injured leg 
 (d)     Injury to the arm 
Q. What quality did these two athletes display that helped them recover? 
 (a) Fear 
 (b)     Bravery 
 (c) Determination  
 (d)     Patriotism 
Q. What fears did Saina Nehwal have when she started playing again after her injury? 
 (a) She may not reach the same level again 
 (b)     Her knee may not be what it was earlier 
 (c) It was her age to retire from the game 
 (d)     She may injure herself again 
Q. Explain   the   psychological   factors   which   may   have   helped   Saina   Nehwal   and 
Ramandeep Singh to make a comeback.  
 
Art Integration 
Knee joints and ligaments are the most affected by a sports injury. The most common tears 
occur   in   Anterior   Cruciate   Ligament   (ACL),   Posterior   Cruciate   Ligament   (PCL),   Medial 
Collateral Ligament (MCL) and Meniscus. 65-75% cases of twist and bend accidents result in 
ACL tears, which is the most common. Meniscus usually accompanies an ACL tear with pain 
in and around the knee. 
Make a 3D model of the knee showing any ONE of the injuries that may occur on the field. 
 
I. Tick the correct answers. 
1. First Aid is the 
 (a) completing secondary survey 
 (b)     first help given to the casualty 
 (c) accessing a victim's vital sign 
 (d)     electrolyte imbalane 

 [263] 
2. Dressing and band ages are used to 
 (a) increase the victim's pain. 
 (b)     increases internal bleeding. 
 (c) help control bleeding and prevent infection. 
 (d)     Stitch up a deep wound 
3. What is the best way to stop external blood loss? 
 (a) apply direct pressure over the wound 
 (b)     take the patient to hospital 
 (c) wash the wound with water. 
 (d)     apply cream on wound 
4. A burn should be immersed or placed under cold water for at least? 
 (a) 5 min 
 (b)     10 min 
 (c) 15 min 
 (d)     20 min 
5. The key guiding aims and objectives of first aid are, 
 (a) present, promote injury, preserve water 
 (b)     present further injury, promote recovery, preserve life 
 (c) preserve recovery, preserve minerals, preserve environment 
 (d)     pull ups, push-ups, power lifting 
6. What is R.I.C.E. treatment? 
 (a) Rest, Ice, Crutches, Elevation 
 (b)     Rest, Ice, Compression, Elevation 
 (c) Rest, Ibuprofen, Crutches, Exercise 
 (d)     Recovery, Ice, Compression, Exercise 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define muscular strength and Speed. 
2. Name the physiological factors determining the component of physical fitness. 
3. Write down the aims and objectives of first aid. 
 
 

 [264] 
References: 
1
Venkat, R. (2020, 09 20). Kunjarani Devi, the first superstar of Indian weightlifting. Retrieved 11 25, 
2020, from Olympic Channel: 
https://www.olympicchannel.com/en/stories/features/detail/kunjarani-devi-indian-weightlifter-
world-championship-commonwealth-games/ 
2
Cardiac Output. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://ib.bioninja.com.au/options/option-d-
human-physiology/d4-the-heart/cardiac-output.html 
 
3
Dr Rasol Ibrahim Peshdary. (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
http://www.noormedical.com/content/dr-rasol-ibrahim-peshdary 
4
Morris, A. (1984). Sports Medicine, Prevention of Athletic Injuries. Lowa: Wm. C. Brown. 
5
Bahr,  R.,  Mccrory,  P.,  R.F.  LaPrade,  W.  M.,  &  Engebretsen,  L.  (2012).  The  IOC  manual  of  sports 
injuries : an illustrated guide to the management of injuries in physical activity. US: Wiley and Sons. 
6
Adolfsson, P., & et.al. (2018, 08 22). ISPAD Clinical Practice Consensus Guidelines 2018: Exercise in 
children and adolescents with diabetes. Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from Wiley Online Library: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/pedi.12755   
 
 
Suggested Reading 
 Giam, C., & The, K. (1994). Sport Medicine Exercise and Fitness. P.G. Medical Book. 
 Griffith, W. H. (1989). Sports Injuries. New Delhi: Metro Publication Co. Pvt. Ltd. 
 Maud, J., & Foster, C. (1995). Physiology Assessment of Human Fitness. Human Kinetics. 
 Peterson,  L.,  &  Renstrom,  A.  (2017).  Sports  Injuries  Prevention,  Treatment  and  Rehabilitation. 
CRC Press. 
 Physical  Education  and  Yog  (373).  (n.d.).  Retrieved  11  25,  2020,  from  National  School  of  Open 
Learning: https://www.nios.ac.in/online-course-material/sr-secondary-courses/physical-
education-and-yog-(373).aspx 
 Sharkey, B. (1990). Physiology of Fitness. Human Kinetics Book. 
 Tiwari, S. (2019). Exercise Physiology. Delhi: Sports Publication. 
 Vijay. (2002). Handbook of Sports Medicine. New Delhi: Friends Publication. 
 
 

 [265] 
UNIT-8: BIOMECHANICS AND SPORTS 
Content 
 Meaning and Importance of Biomechanics in Sports  
 Types of Movements (Flexion, Extension, Abduction and Adduction) 
 Newton’s Laws of Motion and Its application in Sports 
 Friction and Sports 
Learning Outcomes 
At the end of this unit students will be able to: 
 recognize the concept of sports biomechanics 
 know the importance of biomechanics in sports 
 classify  the  various  types  of  movements  (such  as  flexion,  extension,  abduction  and 
adduction) as well as know the forces involved in it 
 define Newton’s laws of Motion and identify their applicability in sports 
 define friction and its usage in sports 
Discussion 
Look  at  the  pictures  of  the  various  techniques  of  high  jump  carefully.  and  then  read  the 
paragraph given below. 
      
Now, discuss in your group 
 What are the techniques used in high jump? 
 Why do different players adopt a specific technique? 
 What do you know about the Fosbury flop? Why is it so called? 
 What is the best high jump technique? 
 Which biomechanical principle is applied in high jump? 
Study of biomechanics provides you with some insights to answer these and other questions 
you may have about human movement. 
 
 
 

 [266] 
8.1.1  Meaning of Biomechanics 
It  was  realized  after  1950  that  the  mechanical  principles  involving  on  the  human  body  is 
entirely different from other things. So, during the early 1970s the international community 
adopted the terms Biomechanics to describe the application of mechanical principles in the 
study of living organisms. 
Biomechanics is  the  combination  of  two  words- bio and mechanics. Bio means,  something 
pertaining to living beings or life, whereas Mechanics is the branch of physics which studies 
movement  or  motion  of  an  object  or  body  with  the  help  of  mechanical  principles.  Thus, 
when the study of mechanics is limited to living structures and their function, especially the 
human body, it is called biomechanics. 
Within  “mechanics”  there  are  two  sub-fields  of  study.  One  is statics which  is  the  study  of 
systems that are in a state of constant motion either at rest (with no motion) or moving with 
a constant velocity; and the second one is dynamics, which is the study of systems in motion 
in which acceleration is present, which may involve kinematics and kinetics. 
Kinematics is the study of the motion of bodies with respect to time, displacement, velocity, 
and speed of movement either in a straight line or in a rotary direction. Whereas, Kinetics is 
the  study  of  the  forces  associated  with  motion,  including  forces  causing  motion  and  forces 
resulting from motion. 
8.1.2  Meaning of Sports Biomechanics 
Sports    biomechanics    is    a    quantitative    based    study    and    analysis    of    professional 
athletes/sportspersons and sports activities in general. In simple terms, it may be described 
as the physics of sports. In this subfield of biomechanics, the laws of mechanics are applied 
to sporting events through mathematical modelling, computer simulation and measurement 
in order to gain a greater understanding of athletic or sporting performance. 
Mechanics    is    a    branch    of    physics    that    is    concerned    with    the    description    of 
motion/movement   and   how   forces   create   motion/movement.   Biomechanics   in   sport 
incorporates  detailed  analysis  of  sport  movements  in  order  to  minimise  the  risk  of  injury 
and  improve  sports  performance.  Sport  as  well  as  exercise  biomechanics  encompasses  the 
area of science concerned with the analysis of the mechanics of human movement. It refers 
to  the  description,  detailed  analysis  and  assessment  of  human  movement  during  sport 
activities. 
In  other  words,  sport  biomechanics  is  the  science  of  explaining  how  and  why  the  human 
body moves in the way that it does. In sport and exercise that definition is often extended to 
also   consider   the   interaction   between   the   performer   and   her/his   equipment   and 
environment. 

 [267] 
Do you know? 
 A  mathematical  model  is  a  description  of  a  system  using  mathematical  concepts  and 
language.  The  process  of  developing  a  mathematical  model  is  termed  mathematical 
modelling.  Mathematical  models  are  used  in  the  natural  sciences  (such  as  physics, 
biology,   earth   science,   chemistry)   and   engineering   disciplines   (such   as   computer 
science,  electrical  engineering),  as  well  as  in  the  social  sciences  (such  as  economics, 
psychology, sociology, political science). 
 Computer   simulation   is   the   reproduction   of   the   behaviour   of   a   system   using   a 
computer  to  simulate  the  outcomes  of  a  mathematical  model  associated  with  said 
system.  Since  they  allow  to  check  the  reliability  of  chosen  mathematical  models, 
computer  simulations  have  become  a  useful  tool  for  the  mathematical  modelling  of 
many  natural  systems  in  physics  (computational  physics),  astrophysics,  climatology, 
chemistry,   biology   and   manufacturing,   as   well   as   human   systems   in   economics, 
psychology,  social  science,  health  care  and  engineering.  Simulation  of  a  system  is 
represented as the  running of  the  system's  model.  It  can  be  used  to  explore  and  gain 
new  insights  into  new  technology  and  to  estimate  the  performance  of  systems  too 
complex for analytical solutions. 
8.1.3  Definitions of Sports Biomechanics 
 “The area of study between wherein knowledge and methods of mechanics are applied to 
the structure and function of the living human system.” 
1
 
“The  area  of  study  where  the  knowledge  and  methods  of  mechanics  are  applied  to  the 
structure and function of the living human system.”
2 
“Biomechanics  is  the  science  concerned  with  the  internal  and  external  forces  acting  on  a 
human body and the effects produced by these forces”.
3 
8.1.4  Importance of Biomechanics in Sports 
Sports biomechanics is limited to the study those individuals who are involved in exercise or 
sports  or  any  physical  activity.  Sports  biomechanics  can  be  defined  as  the  study  of  forces 
and  their  effect  on  individuals  while  he/she  is  exercising  or  taking  part  in  any  sporting 
activity.  The  following  are  some  of  the  areas  where  biomechanics  is  applied,  to  either 
support the performance of athletes or solve issues in sport or exercise. 
 Performance Enhancement, 
 Technique Improvement, 
 Equipment Improvement, 

 [268] 
 Training Improvement, and 
 Injury prevention and rehabilitation. 
Performance  Enhancement: The  ultimate  goal  of  sports  biomechanics  is  improvement  of 
sports   performance   or   improvement   in   the   benefits   of   exercising.   Understanding 
biomechanics   and   applying   the   mechanical   principles   helps   improve   an   individual’s 
technique   and   enhance   performance   by   utilising   the   equipment   he/she   uses   more 
effectively and by modifying the specific training method. By studying how the human body 
moves, we can remove stress and pressure on the bones, joints, muscles and ligaments. This 
results in improved athletic performance. 
Helps  in  Improvement  of  Technique: A  sportsperson’s  performance  can  be  improved  by 
improving  her/his  technique.  The  application  of  biomechanical  principles  can  be  applied  to 
improve technique in two ways. First, the coaches may use their knowledge of biomechanics 
to  rectify  the  errors  made  by  the sportsperson  in  order  to  improve  the  execution  of  a  skill. 
Second, the sportsperson may discover a new and more effective technique for executing a 
sports skill.  
Do you Know 
Researchers have recently also developed a  new  swimming  suit  which  helped  swimmers at 
the  Sydney  Olympics  in  2000  better  several  world  records  because  it  has  a  favourable 
influence  on  the  draft  force  and  buoyancy  of  water  that  is  acting  against  swimmers. This 
swimming suit had such an influence on sport performance in swimming, in fact, that its use 
was later banned. 
 
Improvement   of   Equipment:   How   else   can   biomechanics   contribute   to   performance 
improvement?  What  about  improved  designs  for  the  equipment  used  in  various  sports? 
Shoes  and  apparel  (sports  cloth)  constitute  the  equipment  used  in  almost  every  sport.  The 
equipment  worn  may  have  an  effect  on  the  performance,  either  directly  or  through  injury 
prevention. Besides shoes and apparel, many sports require the use of some sort of tools. 
Think  of  sports  in  which  an  implement  is  used  in  your 
institution.  How  have  changes  in  sports  implements 
changed  performances  in  these  sports?  What  about 
bicycling,  swimming,  tennis,  golf,  hockey,  high  jump, 
javelin   throw,   soccer,   basketball,   etc.   Lighter   and 
better-designed implements have not only contributed 
to  improved  performances  by  elite  athletes  in  these 
sports, they have contributed to improved 
performances by recreational participants as well.  

 [269] 
Improvement  in  Training: Biomechanics  helps  improve  a  sportsperson’s  performance  by 
offering  customised  modifications  in  training  to suit  an  individual’s  capacity  and  skills.  This 
can occur in several ways. An analysis of the deficiencies of an athlete’s technique can assist 
the  coach  in  identifying  the  type  of  training  the  athlete  requires  to  improve  performance. 
The  athlete’s  performance,  for  example,  may  be  limited  by  the  strength  or  endurance  of 
certain  muscle  groups,  by  speed  of  movement,  or  by  one  specific  aspect  of  his/her 
technique. For example, if a gymnast has difficulty in turning a somersault, the coach could 
recommend she/he (a) jumps higher, (b) flings arms with more energy before taking off, or 
(c)   curls   up   more   tightly   in   order   to   execute   the   somersault   correctly.   All   these 
recommendations  are  based  on  the  principles  of  biomechanics.  Sport  events  that  saw 
substantial  changes  in  technique  in  the  past  include  javelin,  high  jump,  and  cross-country 
skiing. 
Injury  Prevention  and  Rehabilitation: Injuries  are  fairly  common  on  the  sports  field. 
However, a good knowledge of biomechanics helps in preventing injury in various ways. For 
example, analysis of the runner’s style of running, her/his arm swing, foot strike, even trunk 
leaning  will  determine  the  cause  of  injury.  In  fact,  just  as  biomechanics  is  useful  in 
identifying  what  forces  may  have  caused  an  injury,  it  also  helps  determine  how  to  prevent 
the  injury  from  reoccurring.  It  also  helps  in  the  process  of  rehabilitation  of  injuries,  and 
helping  determine  the  exercises  that  may  help  in  the  process  of  rehabilitation  of  injury. 
Biomechanics is used to provide the basis for changes in techniques, equipment and training 
to prevent injuries. 
Facilitates  in  Understanding  of  Human  Body: Biomechanics  helps  in  understanding  the 
complete human body. Knowledge of biomechanics provides the teachers and learners with 
a  better  understanding  of  the  human  body  and  various  internal  and  external  forces  that 
affect  movement.  Teachers  a
   nd  Coaches  come  to  know  about  the  various  systems  such  as 
nervous  system,  muscular  system,  skeletal  system  etc.,  and  their  mutual  interactions.  This 
knowledge in turn enables them to be better teachers/instructors of many physical activities 
and skills encompassed within physical education. 
I. Tick the correct options. 
1. The  term  ‘biomechanics’  to  describe  the  application  of  mechanical  principles  in  the 
study of living organism was adopted in 
 (a) early 1970s 
 (b)     late 1970s 
 (c) 1970 
 (d)     early 1980s 
2. The field where the study of forces is in focus is known as 
 (a) dynamics 

 [270] 
 (b)     kinematics 
 (c) statics 
 (d) kinetics 
3. Sports biomechanics cab be described as- 
 (a) mechanics of sports 
 (b)     kinesiology 
 (c) physics of sports 
 (d)     sports dynamics 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define biomechanics. 
2. What  do  you  understand  by  the  concept  of  sports  biomechanics?  Write  in  your  own 
words. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. List the importance of sports biomechanics. 
2. Differentiate between biomechanics and sports biomechanics. 
Extension Activity 
Discuss with your group 
 What is biomechanics and sports biomechanics? 
 How  can  study  of  sports  biomechanics  helps  a  coach  to  train  their  trainee  in  a 
better scientific manner? 
Design a poster to show the importance of sports biomechanics for an athlete. 
8.2.1  Movement 
Body  movement  is  something  that  gets  polished  as  we  grow  in  age.  In  our  childhood,  we 
tend  to  start  with  basic  movements  such  as  rolling,  crawling  and  eventually  walking.  But 
have you ever actually decoded, how this happens? What are all body parts involved? In this 
section, you will learn the exact meaning of movement and its various versions experienced 
in human beings. 
Movement  is  one  of  the  things  that  differentiates  a  living  thing  from  a  non-living  thing. 
Movement refers to a change in the position of an object. In the human body, it takes place 
when  the  living  organism  moves  a  body  part  or  a  combination  of  parts  to  bring  without  a 
change  in  the  position.  We  use  the  term  locomotion  to  describe  the  movement  which 
results  in  the  change  of  position  of  the  whole  organism.  It  is  important  to  understand  the 

 [271] 
difference  between  the  two  –  movement  and  locomotion  –  in  relation  to  living  things. 
Movement  is  the  displacement  of  a  body  or  its  parts  from  their  original  position  to  a  new 
position.  Locomotion  is  when  the  movement  of  a  part  of  the  body  leads  to  change  in  the 
position  and  location  of  the  organism.  Both  of  these  are  brought  about  by  the  joint  efforts 
of   the   skeletal   and   muscular   systems.   Movement   is   seen   in   both   vertebrates   and 
invertebrates. 
There are a variety of movements which happen in the human body, eg., the movement of 
eyelids, heart muscles, jaw and teeth. In addition, movement could also refer to movement 
of  arms  and  legs,  as  well  as  head  and  neck.  Interestingly,  movement  of  some  organs  occur 
because of the collaboration of muscles and bones. In these cases, it happens along a point 
at which two or more bones form a joint. 
Human movements are described in three dimensions based on a series of planes and axis. 
Plane 
A  plane  is  an  imaginary  surface  through  movement  takes  place.  There  are  three  planes  of 
motion that pass through the human body. 
 Sagittal plane 
 Frontal plane 
 Transverse (horizontal) plane 
Sagittal Plane: The sagittal plane is an imaginary vertical surface which divides the body into 
right and left parts or sections. Flexion and extension types of movement occur in this plane, 
eg., kicking a football, chest pass in netball/basketball, walking, jumping, squatting. 
 
Frontal Plane: The frontal plane is also an imaginary vertical surface which divides the body 
into  front  (anterior)  and  back  (posterior)  parts  or  sections.  Frontal  plane  is  also  known  as 
Coronal  plane.  Abduction  and  adduction  movements  occur  in  this  plane,  eg.,  jumping  jack 
exercises, raising and lowering arms and legs sideways, cartwheel. 

 [272] 
Transverse Plane: The transverse plane is an imaginary horizontal surface which divides the 
body   into   upper   (superior)   and   lower   (inferior)   parts   or   sections.   Rotation   types   of 
movement  occur  in  this  plane,  eg.,  hip  rotation  in  a  golf  swing,  twisting  in  a  discus  throw, 
pivoting in netball/basketball, spinning in skating. 
Axis 
An  axis  is  an  imaginary  straight  line  around  which  an  object/parts  of  human  body  rotates. 
Movement at a joint takes place in a plane about an axis. There are three axes of rotation. 
 Sagittal axis 
 Frontal axis 
 Vertical axis 
Sagittal  Axis: The  sagittal  axis  also  known  as  anteroposterior  axis  or dorsoventral  axis.  It  is 
an imaginary line which passes horizontally from back (posterior) to front (anterior) through 
the centre of the body. It is formed by the intersection of the sagittal and transverse planes. 
eg., when a person performs a cartwheel they are rotating about the sagittal axis. 
Frontal  Axis: It  is  also  known  as  Horizontal  axis  or  Left-right  axis.  The  frontal  axis  is  an 
imaginary line which passes horizontally from left to right through the centre of the body. It 
is  formed  by  the  intersection  of  the  frontal  and  transverse  planes.  eg.,  when  a  person 
performs a somersault they rotate around this axis. 
Vertical Axis: The vertical axis  is also knowns as Longitudinal axis  or Craniocaudal axis. This 
axis  is  an  imaginary  line  which  passes  vertically  from  bottom  (inferior)  to  top  (superior) 
through  the  centre  of  the  body.  It  is  formed  by  the  intersection  of  the  sagittal  and  frontal 
planes. eg., when a skater performs a spin they are rotating around the vertical axis. 
 

 [273] 
         
 
8.2.2  Types of Movement 
Flexion and Extension 
Flexion  and  extension  are  the  movements  which  occur  in  the  sagittal  plane.  They  refer  to 
increasing and decreasing the angle between two body parts. 
 

 [274] 
8.2.3  Flexion 
Flexion  refers to a movement that decreases the angle between two body parts. Flexion at 
the  elbow  is  decreasing  the  angle  between  the  ulna  and  the  humerus.  When  the  knee 
flexes,  the  ankle  moves  closer  to  the  buttock,  and  the  angle  between  the  femur  and  tibia 
decreases. 
8.2.4  Extension 
Extension refers to a movement that increases the angle between two body parts. Extension 
at the elbow increases the angle between the ulna and the humerus. Extension of the knee 
straightens the lower limb. 
Abduction and Adduction 
8.2.5  Abduction 
Abduction  and  adduction  are  two  terms  that  are  used  to  describe  movements  towards  or 
away from the midline of the body. 
Abduction  is  a  movement  away  from  the  midline  -  just  as  abducting  someone  is  to  take 
them away. For example, abduction  of the shoulder raises the arms out to the sides of the 
body. 
 
8.2.6  Adduction 
Adduction  is  a  movement  towards  the  midline.  Adduction  of  the  hip  squeezes  the  legs 
together. 

 [275] 
Do you know? 
All  body  movements  occur  in  different  planes  and  around  different  axes.  A plane is  an 
imaginary flat surface running through the body. An axis is an imaginary line at right angles 
to the plane, about which the body rotates or spins. 
 
Extension Activity 
Perform   front-roll,   back-roll,   and   cartwheel.   Write   on   which   plane   and   axis   these 
movements took place. 
Name of the Activity Plane Axis 
Front-roll   
Back-roll   
Cartwheel   
 
 
I. Tick the correct options. 
1. The term flexion refers to 
 (a) bending 
 (b)     turning 
 (c) twisting 
 (d)     straightening 
2. Extension is 
 (a) bending 
 (b)     turning 
 (c) twisting 
 (d) straightening 
3. Moving away from the reference axis is known as 
 (a) flexion 
 (b)     extension 
 (c) abduction 
 (d)     adduction 
4. Bringing closer to the reference axis is called 
 (a) flexion 
 (b)     extension 

 [276] 
 (c) abduction 
 (d) adduction 
5. The plane which divides the body into a left and a right is called 
 (a) coronal plane 
 (b) sagittal plane 
 (c) vertical plane 
 (d)     transvers plane 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What is plane of movement? 
2. Which plane and axis is involved while we kick a football. 
3. Differentiate between flexion and extension. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Differentiate between abduction and adduction. 
2. How does knowledge of movement and its type contribute for graceful movement? 
8.3.1  Newton's Laws of Motion 
Sir   Isaac   Newton   (1642-1727)   was   one   of   the   greatest   scientists   and 
mathematicians that ever lived. 
Newton  came  up  with  three  general  rules  about  the  movement  of  objects, 
which are now known as Newton’s Three Laws of Motion. 
8.3.2  Newton's First Law of Motion: Law of Inertia 
The Newton’s First Law of motion is known as Law of Inertia. Inertia is a Latin word used for 
idleness  or  laziness.  The  Law  of  Inertia  can  be  interpreted  as  everything  in  the  universe  is 
lazy, thus requiring a force to get it on the move (which then occurs in a straight line). Once 
moving, more force is needed to slow it, stop it, or to speed it up or to change direction. 
So, you can say that the Law of Inertia states a body likes to preserve in its state of being at 
rest  or  of  moving  forward  in  a  straight  line  except  insofar  as  it  is  compelled  to  change  its 
state by applied force. In simple words you can say ‘an object will stay at rest or continue at 
a  constant  velocity  unless acted  upon  by an  external  unbalanced  force’.  For  example,  the 
golf ball remains at rest until it is struck by a golf club. 
This  is  often  paraphrased  as  “zero  net  force  implies  zero  acceleration”,  but  this  is  an  over- 
simplification. The key point here is that if there is no net force acting on an object then the 

 [277] 
object will maintain a constant velocity. If that velocity is zero, the object remains at rest. If 
an external force is applied, the velocity will change because of the force. 
In brief, the Law of Inertia essentially makes two important points: (a) An object that is not 
moving will not move  until a  net force acts upon it; and  (b) An object that  is in motion will 
not change its velocity (acceleration)  until a net force acts upon  it. In football,  for example, 
at the time of kick
-off, the ball shall  roll forward  unless kicked by the player,  or,  in golf the 
ball is not moved unless hit. Similarly, the moving football shall not change its velocity unless 
a player or another object acts upon it. 
Inertia is the  body’s  resistance to change in movement. It is proportional to mass, thus the 
mass of an object is the measure of its inertia. Therefore, mass is the quantity of resistance 
to  change.  It  should  not  be  confused  with  weight.  The  weight  of  a  person  (or  an  object)  is 
the  measure  of  force  with  which  the  earth  pulls  on  the  body’s  mass.  This  downward 
gravitational force is the body’s weight directed towards the earth’s centre. Understandably 
so,  a  body’s  mass  and  weight  are  directly  proportional.  The  more  mass  a  body  has,  the 
greater the earth’s attraction on it, the more it will weigh. Weight is a force; whereas, mass 
is not. It has no direction. Mass is the resistance to change (i.e., inertia). 
Principles related to the Law of Inertia 
Combining  Translator  and  Rotary  Motion: The  combined  motions,  if  performed  correctly 
with proper timing and sequence, will produce maximum final velocity  of  ‘an  object’ in the 
desired direction of release (eg., discuss toss, bike riding, car, wheelchair etc.). 
 Continuity   of   Motion: The   accomplishment   of   the   first   motion   represents   the 
overcoming  of  a  certain  amount  of  inertia  and,  therefore,  any  hesitation  prior  to  the 
next  motion  will  result  in  loss  of  some  or  all  of  the  advantage  gained  by  the  previous 
motion (eg., backward roll, pole vaulting). Interruption of motion costs energy. 
 Effects of Momentum: More momentum can be produced with a longer implement in 
that  the  end  will  move  faster  than  a  shorter  implement  (eg.,  don’t  choke  up  on  a 
tennis racket or baseball bat). 
 Transfer  of  Momentum: Momentum  develop  in  a  body  segment  may  be  transferred 
to  the  total  body,  but  only  while  the  body  is  in  contact  with  the  supporting  surface 
(eg., earth, diving board). 
8.3.3  Newton's Second Law of Motion: Law of Acceleration or Law of 
Resultant Force 
The  second  law  states  that,  the  rate  of  change  of  momentum  of  a  body  is  proportional  to 
the  resultant  force  acting  on  the  body  and  is  in  the  same  direction.  This  explains  how  the 

 [278] 
velocity of an  object changes when it  is acted upon by an external force. The law defines a 
force to be equal to change in momentum (mass times velocity) per change in time. 
Acceleration  is  produced  when  a  force  acts  on  a  mass.  The  greater  the  mass  (of  the  object 
being  accelerated),  the  greater  the  amount  of  force  needed  (to  accelerate  the  object).  In 
simple words you can say the acceleration  of an  object is  directly proportional to the force 
exerted upon it, takes place in the direction of applied force, and is inversely proportional to 
the mass of the body. 
When a body is acted upon by a force, its resulting acceleration is proportional to the force 
and inversely proportional to the mass. Hence, with a constant mass, the greater the force, 
the  greater  the  acceleration.  And,  with  a  constant  force  applied,  the  greater  the  mass,  the 
less  the  acceleration.  Another  way  of  saying  the  same  thing  is:  “The  velocity  of  a  moving 
object will remain constant unless a force acts on it.” 
What does this Second Law mean? 
Everyone  knows  that  heavier  objects  require  more  force  to  move  the  same  distance  as 
lighter objects. 
However,   the   Second   Law   gives   us   an   exact   relationship   between   force,   mass,   and 
acceleration. 
Do you know? 
A  Newton  (N)  is  the  international  unit  of  measure  for  force.  One  newton  is  equal  to  1 
kilogram meter per second squared. 
1 N = 1 kg 
௠
௦
మ
 
 
It can be expressed as a mathematical equation: 
F = MA 
or 
FORCE = MASS times ACCELERATION 
Important Principles Related with the Law of Acceleration 
Acceleration is propositional to the force causing it: A sprinter can increase acceleration by 
increasing  the  force  that  he/she  applies  backward  and  downward  against  the  surface  on 
which  he/she  is  running  and,  if  he/she  should  double  the  force,  then  acceleration  would 
double  and,  similarly,  if  he/she  should  keep  the  force  constant  and  reduce  mass,  he/she 
would increase acceleration. 
Maximum  acceleration  and  efficiency  of  motion: To  achieve  maximum  acceleration,  all 
available forces should be applied sequentially with proper timing and as directly as possible 
in the intended line of motion. 

 [279] 
Effects  of  body’s  radius  on  angular  velocity: The  rate  of  rotation  is  increased  as  the  radius 
of rotation is decreased (For example, tuck head and bend knees; a shorter person will have 
higher rate of rotation). 
Conservation of momentum in swinging movements: To build or to conserve momentum in 
any  swinging  movement,  the  radius  of  rotation  should  be  shortened  on  the  upswing  and 
lengthened on the downswing. 
Movements while unsupported: When the body  is unsupported, movements may occur to 
aid  in  controlling  balance,  but  the  flight  path  (trajectory  angle)  will  be  unaffected  by  the 
movements. 
Twisting  movements: These  are  based  on  the  transfer  of  momentum  from  part  to  whole, 
when in contact with a surface (have to initiate the twist in some way at take-off). 
Extension Activity 
Anmol’s car,  which weighs  1,000  kg, is out of fuel.  Anmol  is trying  to  push  the car to  a  fuel 
station,  and  he  makes  the  car  go  0.05  m/s/s.  Using  Newton’s  Second  Law,  compute  how 
much force Anmol is applying to the car. 
 
8.3.4  Newton's  Third  Law  of  Motion:  Law  of  Reaction  or  Law  of  Reciprocal 
Action Force 
Commonly  paraphrased  as;  “For  every  force  (action)  there  is  an  equal,  but  opposite,  force 
(action)”, the Third law of motion states: All forces occur  in pairs, and these two forces are 
equal in magnitude and opposite in direction. 
A  more  direct  and  detailed  description  of  the  law  may  be  that  the  mutual  actions  of  two 
bodies upon each other are always equal, and directed to contrary parts. Whatever draws or 
presses another object is as much drawn or pressed by that other. If you press a stone with 
your finger, the  finger is also pressed by the stone. If a horse draws a stone tied to a rope, 
the horse will be equally drawn back towards the stone: for the distended rope, by the same 
endeavour  to  relax  or  unbend  itself,  will  draw  the  horse  as  much  towards  the  stone,  as  it 
does  the  stone  towards  the  horse,  and  will  obstruct  the  progress  of  the  one  as  much  as  it 

 [280] 
advances that of the other. If a body impinges upon another body, and by its force changes 
the motion of the other, that body also (because  of the equality of the mutual presser) will 
undergo an equal change, in  its own motion, towards the contrary part. The changes made 
by these actions are equal,  not  in the velocities but in the motions of the  bodies; that  is to 
say,  if  the  bodies  are  not  hindered  by  any  other  impediments.  For,  as  the  motions  are 
equally  changed,  the  changes  of  the  velocities  made  toward  contrary  parts  are  reciprocally 
proportional to the bodies. 
What  is  meant  here  is  that  all  forces  are  interactions  -  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a 
unidirectional  force.  If  body  A  exerts  a  force  on  body  B,  simultaneously,  body  B  exerts  the 
same force on body A. 
That  means  for  every  action  there  is  an  equal  and  opposite  reaction.  Whenever  one  body 
exerts  a  force  on  another  body,  the  second  body  always  exerts  a  force  on  the  first  body 
which is equal in magnitude, opposite in direction and has the same line of action. 
Principles Related to the Law of Counter Force 
Surface variation and the amount of counterforce: The counterforce is equal to the applied 
force  when  a  stable  surface  is  used.  The  less  stable  the  surface,  the  less  will  be  the 
counterforce.  Examples  include:  (a)  decreased  friction  on  ice  (fast  skating);  (b)  increased 
friction  running  in  the  sand;  and  (c)  quality  of  a  trampoline  bed  (ie.,  new  vs.  old,  as  in 
sagging). Direction  of  the  counterforce: The  direction  of  the  counterforce  is  directly 
opposite   that   of   the   applied   force.   The   counterforce   is   most   effective   when   it   is 
perpendicular  to  the  supporting  surface.  If  not  perpendicular,  the  force  is  separated  into 
two  components,  vertical  and  horizontal.  Hence,  it  is  important  to  consider  the  trajectory 
angle. 
Counterforce  in  striking activities: The  amount  of  force  a  striking  implement  imparts  to  an 
object  depends  upon  the  combined  momentum  of  the  implement  and  the  object  at  the 
moment  of  impact  (ie.,  how  is  the  force  dissipated).  Also,  it  depends  on  the  mass  of  the 
object  and  the  implement.  Examples  include  baseball  bat  hitting  a  baseball  or  a  tennis 
racket hitting a tennis ball. 
Temporarily  stored  counterforce: If  a  surface  or  implement  used  in  a  performance  has 
elasticity, then an applied force produces bend or compression that represents stored force, 
and the stored force  increases the propulsive force over what  it would  be if elasticity were 
not present. Examples include pole vaulting (eg., fiberglass poles bend more and store more 
energy  than  aluminium  poles)  and  diving  boards  (the  aluminium  board  vs.  the  wooden 
board). Surface  contact  while  applying  forces  to  external  objects: In  throwing,  pushing, 
pulling,  and  striking  activities,  one  or  both  feet  should  be  kept  in  firm  contact  with  the 
supporting  surface  until  the  force  providing  motion  is  complete,  otherwise  the  maximum 
force is decreased. 

 [281] 
8.3.5  Application of Newton's Law of Motion in Sports 
Newton’s  Laws  of  Motion  form  the  basis  for  principles  used  in  sport  movements.  Methods 
of  training  that  depart  from  these  laws  would  not  make  sense  mechanically.  Tips  for 
efficient sport performances are built around these laws and principles. 
First,  it  helps  to  know  that  there  are  two  basic  types  of  motion.  These  come  into  play  in 
combination when applying mechanical principles to sport skills: 
1. Linear  motion occurs  when  an  object  or  person  travels  in  a  straight  line,  as  when 
sledding across a level surface. 
2. Angular  motion occurs  when  an  object  or  person  turns  about  a  centre  point,  axis,  or 
fulcrum and does not travel from place to place. It is common in diving and gymnastic 
skills when athletes rotate, twist, or spin. 
I. Tick the correct options 
1. According to Newton’s Second Law of Motion, the greater the movement of an object, 
the 
 (a) longer distance will it travel 
 (b)     stronger will it resist the external forces 
 (c) speedier it will cover the given distance 
 (d) more stable will it remain in its motion. 
2. Newton’s First Law of Motion is known as the 
 (a) Law of Reaction 
 (b)     Law of Inertia 
 (c) Law of Effect 
 (d)     Law of Momentum 
3. Newton’s Second Law of Motion is also known as 
 (a) Law of Reaction 
 (b)     Law of Inertia 
 (c) Resultant Force 
 (d)     Law of Effect 
4. Acceleration  due  to  an  external  force  acting  on  a  moving  object  is  technically  defined 
as change in that object’s 
 (a) location 
 (b)     direction 

 [282] 
 (c) velocity 
 (d)     movement 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. List Newton’s Laws of Motion. 
2. Elucidate Newton’s Law of Inertia. 
3. What is linear motion? 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. With  the  help  of  suitable  examples,  discuss  the  application  of  Newton’s  Laws  of 
Motion in sports. 
2. How can Newton’s second law and third law of motion be applied in sports? 
8.4.1  Friction 
Friction may be defined as 
1. Force acting over the area of contact between two surfaces in the direction opposite 
that of motion or motion tendency. 
4
 
2 Force that resists the sliding or rolling of one solid object over another. 
5
 
Friction  is  a  force  that  acts  parallel  to  the  two surfaces.  or  in  other  words,  it  is  a  force  that 
resists the movement. Friction works in opposite direction of the moving object resulting in 
slowing  down  that  moving  object.  Friction  is  dependent  upon  properties  of  the  two 
surfaces.  Rough  surface  produces  more  friction  and  smooth  surface  produces  less  friction. 
Friction also produces heat. For example, if you rub your hands against each  other you can 
feel he heat that is generated. Friction helps to prevent falling while walking and running. If 
you  wear  shoes  that  are  new  or  those  that  have  a  good  grip  you  will  experience  more 
stability,  then  shoes  that  are  old  and  have  a  poor  grip.  Similarly,  if  the  surface  is  wet  or 
slippery, you will find it difficult to stabilize your body. 
8.4.2  Friction in Sports 
In sports, friction in human movement varies widely depending on different sports because 
each sport has its own movements and surface of the playing field. For example, in Athletics 
(running), the surface is a track and the movement is linear or curvy linear. Here, the sports 
person  has  to  wear  shoes  with  spikes.  However,  in  other  events  in  Athletics  like  discuss 
throw and shot put, the surface is hard and movement is rotatory so the shoes are relatively 
flat. In football, where surface is grassy and the players need greater stability to control the 
ball  and  make  quick  movements,  they  wear  studs  or  football  boots  to  increase  friction.  In 
hockey, badminton, tennis grip taps are  used by the player to increase friction. In shot put, 

 [283] 
javelin  throw,  gymnastics  magnesium  powder  is  used  to  increase  friction.  Thus  to  adjust 
friction,  the  two  surfaces  should  be  compatible  with  each  other,  to  provide  desired 
movement in sports. 
8.4.3  Types of Friction 
In the field of sports, we will study following types of friction. 
1. Static  friction:  Static  friction  is  friction  that  exists  before  an  object  starts  to  slide. For 
example, When you hit a cricket ball with a bat, or a tennis ball with racket, or in rock 
climbing where hand and feet are static. 
2. Kinetic  or  Sliding  friction:  Kinetic  friction  is  friction  that  is  created  when  the  object 
starts  to  slide.  For  example,  when  an  ice  skater  is  skating,  or  friction  produced  while 
rubbing hands. 
3. Rolling  friction:  Rolling  friction  is  friction  when  an  object  rolls  on  the  surface.  For 
example, a ball bearing, any ball rolling on the ground. 
4. Fluid  Friction (Air  and  Water  resistance):  Fluid  friction  is  friction  when  the  movement 
of  an  object  or  a  person  is  hindered  or  meets  resistance  from  water  or  air.  For 
example, swimming, diving, sky diving, discuss and javelin floating in air, high jump etc 
Do you know? 
Recently  one  more  friction  type  has  been  recognised  which  is  known  as  Limiting  Friction. 
Limiting  friction  is  the  force  that  comes  into  play  when  one  body  is  just  on  the  verge  of 
moving over the surface of another body. 
8.4.4  Co-Efficient of Friction 
Friction  is determined by the coefficient of friction. It is a ratio  of force of friction  between 
bodies or force required to start movement and the force pressing the two bodies together. 
It  is  symbolized  by  μ.  Range  of  COF  is  ranging  near  to  0  from  1  but  sometimes  it  can  be 
greater  than  1  due  to  a  stronger  frictional  force.  When  force  is  applied  to  an  object,  the 
resistive force of friction acts in the opposite direction, parallel to the surfaces. The standard 
friction equation for determining the resistive force of friction when trying to slide two solid 
objects together is written as Fr = μN, where Fr is the resistive force of friction and N is the 
perpendicular  force  pushing  the  two  objects  together  (both  in  units  of  force,  pounds  or 
newtons), and μ is the coefficient of friction for the two surfaces. The coefficient of friction 
varies for each situation, and  is related to the two specific surfaces that are in contact with 
each other. 
 

 [284] 
Extension Activity 
Draw images of five sports where you find usage of Friction most prominent. 
 
Art Integration 
Keeping in mind the biomechanics of sports, design sports apparel – dress, footwear etc. – for 
your  favourite  sport.  You  must  justify  the  changes  in  design  by  listing  the  benefits  of  your 
apparel. 
You could follow the steps given below. 
 
 
Case Study 
Study the picture given below. 
 

 [285] 
Based on your study above, and your own knowledge, answer the following questions. 
Q1.    Which of the following Laws of Motion to initiate the rotation of the ball is depicted in 
illustration (a)? 
 (a) Law of Acceleration 
 (b)     Law of Inertia 
 (c) Law of action and reaction 
Q2.    In illustration (b), which force is acting upon the ball to slow it down?  
 (a) Gravity 
 (b)     Buoyancy 
 (c) Friction 
Q3.    Which force will determine the quality of bounce?  
 (a) Law of Acceleration 
 (b)     Law of Inertia 
 (c) Law of action and reaction 
Q4.    In what ways will the Laws of Motion help you if you are a  
 Football player, Batsman, Bowler and Badminton Player 
 
I. Tick the correct option. 
1. The Friction force acts in a/an ______direction to the direction of motion of an object. 
 (a) opposite 
 (b)     same 
 (c) downwards 
 (d)     diagonal 
2. Among the following sports, in which friction plays the least important role? 
 (a) Car Race 
 (b)     Football 
 (c) Hockey 
 (d) Ice Skating 
3. Friction is a - 
 (a) Magnetic Force 
 (b)     Non-contact Force 
 (c) Contact Force 
 (d)     Couple Force 

 [286] 
4. The measurement of the amount of friction a surface will generate is called the  of 
friction. 
 (a) Calibration 
 (b) Coefficient 
 (c) Smoothness 
 (d)     Description 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define Friction. 
2
. What is Air Resistance? 
3. What is Limiting Friction? 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Discuss various types of friction. 
2. Is friction advantageous or disadvantageous in games and sports? 
3. Suggest the methods of reducing friction. 
  
References:  
1
 Dhananjay Shaw (2000), Mechanical Basis of Biomechanics, Sports Publication, Delhi, p.10.  
2
 Susan. J.Hall. (2004), Basic Biomechanics, 4th ed. McGrawHill, New York, P.3 
3
  James.  G.  Hay.(1985).  The  Biomechanics  of  Sports  Techniques,  3rd  ed.  Prentice/Hall 
International, Inc. New Jersey. p.2. 
4
 Susan.J.Hall (2004), Basic Biomechanics, 4th ed. McGraw-Hill, p.389. 
5
 Dhananjay Shaw (1998), Biomechnaics and Kinsiology of Human Motion, 4th ed, Khel Sahitya 
Kendra, Delhi, p.120. 
 
Suggested Readings : 
 Dhananjay Shaw (2000), Mechanical Basis of Biomechanics, Sports Publication, Delhi, 
 Lutlegen,  &  Nancy,  H.  (1997).  Kinesiology:  Scientific  Basis  of  Human  Motion.  Mc  Graw 
Hill. 
 Physical Education and Yog (373). (n.d.). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from National School of 
Open Learning: https://www.nios.ac.in/online-course-material/sr-secondary-
courses/physical-education-and-yog-(373).aspx 
 Thompson, & Floyd. (2017). Manual of Structural Kinesiology. Mc Graw Hil. 
 

 [287] 
UNIT-IX: PSYCHOLOGY AND SPORTS 
Contents 
 Personality; its definition and types – Trait and Types (Sheldon and Jung Classification) 
and Big Five Theory 
 Motivation, its type and techniques 
 Exercise Adherence; Reasons to Exercise, Benefits of Exercise 
 Strategies for Enhancing Adherence to Exercise 
 Meaning, Concept and Types of Aggressions in Sports 
Learning Outcomes 
At the end of the unit, students will be able to: 
 classify different types of personality and its relationship with sport performance. 
 recognise concept of motivation and identify various types of motivation. 
 illustrate various strategies of motivation used in sports. 
 various reasons to exercise and its associated benefits. 
 identify strategies for promoting exercise adherence. 
 differentiate types of aggression in sports 
Discussion 
Read  an  excerpt  from  a  leading  newspaper  regarding  news  for  requirement  of  sports 
psychology in Indian Sports. 
BCCI for hiring psychologists to arrest stress 
TNN | Mar 11 NEW DELHI: The Indian Cricket Board has discussed plans to ask its state units 
to  hire  good  sports  psychologists  who  can  help  young  players  handle  pressure  better  and 
ensure  lesser  drop-outs  from  the  game.  With  India  losing  several  talented  Under-14  and 
Under-16 level players every year due to family and academics pressures, BCCI also wants to 
make the hiring of psychologists compulsory at state academies for age group players. 
According  to  a  board  official,  “India  is  losing  a  lot  of  talent  at  the  age-group  levels,  The 
stake-holders  of  the  game  are  all  concerned  and  they  want  a  system  in  place  to  tackle  this 
problem. It is common these days to see talented players leaving the game after one or two 
bad seasons. As you go higher, the talent pool is reduced. “This shouldn't happen,” thus the 
idea of hiring psychologist was discussed. adding that the cricket drop outs should stop at all 
levels. 
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/bcci-for-hiring-psychologists-to-
arrest- stress/articleshowprint/57587522.cms 1/1 

 [288] 
Discuss in your group 
 What causes a person to persist or to give up? 
 What is the person thinking and feeling while engaged in the activity? 
 What can be the reasons for drop-out of talented athletes from sports? 
 How can a Sports Psychologist help young players handle pressure better? 
 Can    different    motivation    techniques    help    athletes    towards    continued    sports 
participation? 
Present your ideas to the class 
9.1.1  Personality: Concept and Definitions 
Reading the news clipping, did you wonder why a psychologist would be required to prevent 
athletes  from  dropping  out,  even  though  they  have  achieved  success?  Are  we  able  to 
identify  athletes  who  have  the  talent  or  skill  to  continue  with  sports  participation  but  still 
lack the determination to continue in sports? If we were asked to analyse reasons why some 
sportspeople   succeed   despite   all   odds,   surely,   we   will   come   up   with   adjectives   like 
determined,  persistent,  courageous,  dynamic,  robust,  etc.  Is  there  something  more  which 
can  be  added  to  describe  these  athletes –  eg.,  consistent  or  possessing  a  stable  pattern  of 
behaviour?  Sports  psychologists  have  tried  to  answer  these  by  relating  them  with  various 
theories  of  personality.  Understanding  personality  has  been  an  area  of  interest  which  is  as 
old  as  our  civilization.  Even  before  the  present  day  scientific  and  systematic  research  to 
explain personality developed, philosophers across the globe tried to analyse characteristics 
which were unique to an  individual and why people differed in various ways. However, the 
concept of personality is still evolving and covers such a large range of phenomenon, that it 
is very difficult to include all the aspects of personality in one definition. 
The word personality is derived from the Latin word persona, the mask used by actors in the 
Roman  theatre  for  changing  their  appearance  for  performing  in-front  of  their  audience 
according  to  the  given  role.  The  actor  performed  as  per  the  script  or  story  wearing  a 
particular  mask.  The  audience  also  expected  them  to  act  in  a  particular  manner  on  seeing 
the  mask.  However,  it  didn’t  mean  that  the  actors  possessed  the  desired  qualities  of  the 
character   in   themselves.   Therefore,   the   concept   of   personality   came   to   refer   to   an 
individual’s  characteristic  way  of  responding  to  other  individuals  and  situations.  When  we 
observe people around us, we are able to describe their actions and  responses to different 
situations based on the combination of their individual thoughts, characteristics, behaviour, 
attitude,  ideas  and  habits.  We  may  represent  them  as  shy,  happy,  courageous,  aggressive 
etc.  These  characteristics  are  a  representation  of  different  components  of  personalities. 
Therefore,  we  can  view  personality  as  the  relatively  stable  and  unique  characteristics  of  an 
individual across different situations and varied period of time. 

 [289] 
Thus,  Personality  is  a  body  of  habits,  traits,  attitudes  and  ideas  of  an  individual  which  are 
organized externally  into roles and statuses. They relate  internally to motivation, goals and 
various aspects of selfhood. In fact, personality is a composite total of all that a person is. It 
is  the  totality  of  one’s  behaviour  towards  one’s  own  self  as  well  as  others  and  includes 
everything about the person, his/her physical, emotional, social, mental and spiritual make-
up. 
In  sports  also,  it  is  important  to  understand  athletes  and  their  unique  and  relatively  stable 
characteristics in different situations and conditions. It is essential to know how a particular 
athlete responds to the situational demands of the training as well as competitions. No two 
athletes  behave  in  a  similar  manner;  they  may  behave  differently  in  a  common  situation. 
Some  athletes  may  not  like  to  take  a  command  from  a  coach  but  may  respond  positively 
towards acceptable alternatives like cooperative learning from coaches. Sports psychologist 
may  also  be  interested  to  learn  which  type  of  people  opt  for  a  particular  type  of  sports  or 
exercise  program.  To  understand  this,  let  us  overview  personality  from  various  approaches 
and  theories  propounded  by  eminent  psychologists  from  across  the  world.  These  theories 
represent  various  contrasting  views  and  perspectives  on  the  origin  and  nature  of  human 
uniqueness. Each theory may have vast differences but offers wide range of insight that can 
add towards effective understanding of personality of an individual. 
Personality,  thus,  can  be  defined  as  the  characteristic  set  of  behaviours,  cognitions  and 
emotional   patterns   that   evolve   from   biological   and   environmental   factors.   It   is   the 
integration   of   those   systems   and   habits   that   represent   an   individual’s   characteristic 
adjustment to his environment. According to Robert A Baron, “Personality is an individual’s 
unique and relatively stable pattern of behaviour, thoughts and feelings.” Matt Jarvis (2006) 
in   his   book   presented   a   general   definition   of   personality   offered   by   Pewin   (1993) 
“Personality   represents   those   structural   and   dynamic   properties   of   an   individual   or 
individuals  as  they  reflect  themselves  in  characteristic  responses  to  situations”.  It  is  the 
integration   of   those   systems   and   habits   that   represent   an   individual’s   characteristic 
adjustment to his environment.” 
Carl Jung (1933)
1
: Personality as an attitude refers to a predisposition to behave in a certain 
manner. 
William  Herbert  Sheldon  (1942)
2
: offered  a  topology  of  personality  based  on  three  major 
morphologies or body types (Endomorph, Ectomorph, Mesomorph), each associated with a 
different temperament of an individual. 
Cattell (1950)
3
: Personality is “that which permits a prediction of what a person will do in a 
given situation.” 
Guildford (1959)
4
: Personality is an ‘individual’s unique pattern of traits.’ 
Allport  (1961)
5
: Personality  is  the  dynamic  organization  within  the  individual  of  those 

 [290] 
psychological systems that determine his unique adjustment to his environment. 
Eysenck (1953)
6
: Personality is defined as more or less stable and enduring organization or a 
person’s  character,  temperament,   intellect  and  physique  which   determine  his  unique 
adjustment to the environment. 
Robert  A  Baron  (2008)
7
:  Personality  is  defined  as  individual’s  unique  and  relatively  stable 
pattern of behaviour, thoughts and feelings. 
9.1.2  Personality Types 
Some  of  the  Personality  Types  and  Traits  mentioned  here  could  be  used  for  research  as 
Extension Activities or as Project Work 
Over  the  years,  with  the  progress  of  research  and  development  of  literature  in  the  field  of 
personality by various psychologists, it is essential to understand the various approaches for 
getting a better perspective and understanding of personality. 
Personality  type refers  to  the  psychological  classification  of  different  types  of  people. 
Personality types are distinguished from personality traits, which come in different degrees. 
There are many theories regarding personality types, and each theory contains several and 
sometimes many sub theories. For example, according to type theories, there are two types 
of   people,   introverts   and   extroverts.   According   to   trait   theories,   introversion   and 
extroversion are part of a continuous dimension with many people in the middle. The major 
theories  include  dispositional  (trait)  perspective,  psychodynamic,  humanistic,  biological, 
behaviourist, evolutionary, and social learning perspective. However, many researchers and 
psychologists do not clearly subscribe to any one particular perspective, but instead take an 
Personality 
Approaches
Type Approach
Behaviour 
Characterstics 
Type A 
personality 
behaviour
Myers-Briggs 
Type Indicator 
Biological 
Aspects
Fluid Type: 
Hippocrates
Somatotype: 
Sheldon
Kretschmer 
classification
Classifications 
based on 
Trait Appraoch
16 PF -Cattell
Big 5 Personality 
Traits- Costa
Eysenck  - Trait 
inventory 
Humanistic 
Approach
Maslow 
Rogers
Learning 
Approaches
Social Cognitive 
Theories
Psycho Analytic 
Approach
Sigmund Freud
Jung

 [291] 
heterogeneous  approach.  There  is  also  a  substantial  emphasis  on  the  applied  field  of 
personality  testing.  In  psychological  education  and  training,  the  study  of  the  nature  of 
personality and its psychological development is usually reviewed as a prerequisite. 
Since no one particular theory or approach covers the complete aspects of personality, the 
approach for explaining ‘personality’ includes mainly, the ‘Type’ approach which consists of 
classification   or   comprehending   of   personality   type   based   on   a   set   of   behaviour 
characteristics  with  similarities  as  done  by  Myers  and  Briggs  type  indicator,  Friedman  and 
Rosenman  Type  A  personality  behaviour  etc.,  as  well  as  on  the  basis  of   body  type 
classification   by   Kretschmar,   or   somatotype   by   William   Sheldon,   and   the   fluid   type 
classification as explained by Hypocrites. 
In the Indian  context also, the famous Ayurveda  book Charak Samhita classifies  individuals 
into  three  types  known  as vat,  pitta,  kapha on  the  basis  of  three  humoral  elements  are 
referred  as tridosha. Each  of  these  elements  are  associated  with  the  basic  nature  of  an 
individual  referred  to  as prakriti.  The  Indian  literature  also  refers  to  personality  typology 
based on trigunas meaning three qualities: 
(a) Sattva Guna; 
(b) Rajas Guna; 
(c) Tamas Guna. 
The Sattva  Guna consists   of   qualities   related   to   "spirituality".   When Sattva   Guna is 
dominant, a person has an inherent desire to be  good and caring. Cleanliness, truthfulness, 
discipline, constructive thought and self-control are the motive force of sattvic action. Rajas 
Guna gives  rise  to  passion  and  desire.  Such  a  person  veers  towards  greed,  activity, 
undertaking of works, restlessness, gratifications, dissatisfactions, and envy. A person who is 
Tamasic possesses characteristics associated with laziness, inactivity, destructive behaviour, 
arrogance, anger etc. 
Trait  approach,  on  the  other  hand,  focusses  on  specific  psychological  attributes  based  on 
the  concept  of  individuals  differing  in  ‘unique’  and  ‘stable’  characteristics.  Trait  refers  to  a 
characteristic  that  is  unchanging  and  predictable.  For  example,  shyness  is  a  trait  that  is 
usually  stable  in  an  individual’s  personality.  Some  traits  are  innate –  the  infant  possesses  a 
basis  for  developing  t
   he  trait  at  birth,  while  others  are  acquired  through  learning,  such  as 
the  tendencies  toward  tidiness  or  untidiness.  Some  researchers  like  Eysenck,  Cattel  as  well 
as  Allport  and  others  support  inherent  traits  as  “cardinal”  and  proposed  a  theory  of 
personality  based  on  biological  factors,  arguing  that  individuals  inherit  a  type  of  nervous 
system that affects their ability to learn and adapt to the environment. Sigmund Freud and 
Neo-Freudians  like  Jung,  who  described  the  structure  of  personality  in  three  part-id,  ego, 
super  ego,  put  forward  the  psycho-dynamic  theory  of  personality  that  assumes  there  is  an 
interaction   between   nature   (innate   instincts)   and   nurture   (parental   influences).   The 

 [292] 
Humanistic  approach  of  Maslow  and  Carls  Roger  focuses  more  on  human  experiences  and 
innate  capacities  for  self-directed  changes.  They  are  mainly  concerned  with  an  individual’s 
innate drive toward self-actualization—a state of fulfilment in which a person is achieving at 
his  or  her  highest  level  of  capability.  The  learning  approach  to  personality  through  social 
cognitive theory offered  by Bandura and various  others like Skinner emphasizes the  role of 
learning and human experiences on consistency and uniqueness in behaviour over time and 
across situations. They also focus on behaviour as a response to change in environment and 
conditions, and not merely dependent on personality traits. 
In modern sports, inter-action perspective regarding personality is an extremely popular and 
widely  adopted  approach  towards  understanding  of  behaviour.  It  defines  behaviour  as 
function  of  personality  and  situational  factors  acting  together.  According  to  the  interaction 
theory  behaviour  in  any  situation  is  a  function  of  both  personality  and  external  factors. 
While  personality  and  situation  cannot  influence  the  behaviour  independently,  but  their 
interaction influences a particular behaviour. For example, an player with high hostility trait 
may not indulge in aggressive behaviour if he or his team is winning with a large margin, or 
an athlete with composed traits may reflect neurotic tendencies of anxiety if faced with the 
challenge  of  scoring  the  winning  run  of  the  last  ball  of  a  knockout  round  match.  Similar 
forcing  influence  of  situation  on  behaviour  can  be  observed  in  various  sports  environment, 
where the athletes’ behaviour is not influenced by their core traits; instead it is determined 
by the rewards and threats associated with the particular situation. 
9.1.3  Trait Theory  
Trait, in psychology, refers to the ways in which we generally describe the characteristics of 
an  individual  as  part  of  his  personality.  The  descriptive  terms  such  as  extrovert,  introvert, 
sincere,   honest,   loyal,   truthful,   impulsive,   quiet,   conservative,   hesitant,   dominant, 
apprehensive  are  examples  of  personality  traits.  Trait  approach  is  one  of  the  most  vital 
areas of study in psychology that helps identify a person’s personality. 
Trait has two main assumptions:- 
(a) every  individual  has  certain  unique  characteristics  or  traits  which  are  stable  and 
consistent under various conditions, 
(b)     every individual is different due to Her/He unique characteristics or traits. 
Therefore, trait can be defined as a stable and unique characteristic that causes a person to 
respond to a given situation in a  certain way. Trait theories indicate that the personality  of 
an  individual  consists  of  traits  which  are  always  constant  regardless  of  the  situations.  An 
individual  as  a  whole  does  not  have  just  a  single  trait,  but  a  variety  of  traits  form  the 

 [293] 
personality  of  an  individual.  These  personality  traits  are  unique  and  differ  from  one 
individual to another. 
Assessment of trait can be based on three factors. 
 
(a) Frequency; 
(b)     Intensity and 
(c) Variety of situation. 
Frequency refers  to  repetition  of  similar  behaviour  consistently  over  a  period  of  time, 
intensity refers  to  reflecting  the  behaviour  at  an  extreme  level,  and variety  of  situation 
refers to repetition of similar behaviour over different situations. 
It means, we can describe individual’s personality based on trait approach according to the 
reflection  of  similar  characteristics  under  variety  of  conditions  to  be  reflected  in  their 
behaviour at an extreme level. For example,  if an athlete is sociable,  in most situations the 
athlete  will  be  effectively  cooperative  and  will  reflect  strong  team  work  inside  as  well  as 
outside the sporting arena. Thus, trait approach attempts to identify primary characteristics 
of  people.  A  trait  is  considered  as  a  relatively  enduring  attribute  or  quality  on  which  one 
individual  differs  from  another.  They  include  a  range  of  possible  behaviours  that  are 
activated according to the demands of the situation. 
Supporting  such  a  theory  was  Gordon  Allport  (1936),  an  initial  modern  trait  theorist  who 
worked  towards  explaining  personality  traits.  He  proposed  that  individuals  possess  a 
number of traits, which are dynamic in nature. They determine behaviour in such a manner 
that  an  individual  approaches  different  situation  with  similar  plans.  The  traits  integrate 
stimuli  and  responses  which  otherwise  look  dissimilar.  According  to  him,  personality  of  an 
individual can be studied through a distinction between the common traits and the personal 
disposition. It can be classified into three categories. 

 [294] 
1. Cardinal Traits – which dominate behaviour of a person; may be developed later in life 
but rare; 
2. Central  Traits –  consisting  of  characteristics  found  among  everyone  and  acts  as  basic 
building blocks that shape most of our behaviours and lay foundation of an individuals 
personality; 
3. Secondary  Traits- characteristics  or  traits  which  are  in  plentiful  but  need  stimuli, 
therefore reflected only in certain circumstances. 
9.1.4  Sheldon Personality Type 
In the 1940s William Herbert Sheldon classified people according to body types. He claimed 
that a body type could be linked with the personality of the person. According to Sheldon’s 
theory, a fat person with a large bone structure tends to have an outgoing and more relaxed 
personality while a more muscular body-typed person is more active and aggressive. A slim 
or  scrawny  person  with  thin  muscles  is  usually  characterized  as  being  quiet  or  fragile.  He 
split up these body/personality types into three categories called somatotypes. 
(a) Endomorph who  are  rounded  and  soft,  were  said  to  have  tendency  towards  a 
‘viscerotonic’ personality, (ie., Relaxed, comfortable, Social, peaceful, loving); 
(b)     Mesomorph who  are  square  and  muscular,  were  said  to  have  a  tendency  towards  a 
‘somatotonic’ personality (ie., Active, dynamic, assertive); and 
(c) Ectomorph who  are  thin  and  fine-boned,  were  said  to  have  a  tendency  towards  a 
‘cerebrotonic’ personality (ie., Introvert, thoughtful, sensitive, inhibited). 
Extension Activity 
Assess your own personality 
Here  are  a  number  of  personality  traits  that  may  or  may  not  apply  to  you.  Please  write  a 
number  next to each statement to indicate the extent to which you agree or disagree with 
that statement. 
1 = Disagree strongly 
2 = Disagree moderately 
3 = Disagree a little 
4 = Neither agree nor disagree 
5 = Agree a little 
6 = Agree moderately 
7 = Agree strongly 

 [295] 
When I participate in Sports, I feel 
1. Enthusiastic and Energetic 1 2 3 4 5 6 7  
2. Critical, quarrelsome, suspicious of my teammates 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
3. Dependable, disciplined and well-organised 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
4. Anxious about my performance 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
5. Open to new ideas and suggestions. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
6. Cautious while engaging with others 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
7. Cooperative with my team mates 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
8. Disorganized, careless about my equipment 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
9. Calm and collected about the outcome 1 2 3 4 5 6 7   
10. Rigid and unwilling to try out new ideas 1 2 3 4 5 6 7   
Answer the following: 
1.     If  you  were  to  change  one  aspect  of  your  personality,  what  would  you  like  to  change 
and why? If not, why not? 
2.     Which  aspect  of  your  personality  would  you  never  want  to  change?  Discuss  with  a 
friend. 
For answers to Personality assessment, see last page of the Unit. 
 
 

 [296] 
Body Type Physiological Characteristics Psychological Characteristics 
ENDOMORPH    Pear-shaped 
Round, fat and thick 
Wide  hips  and  narrow  shoulders  High 
fat percentage 
Under-developed muscles 
Relaxed     Tolerant     Comfortable 
Sociable Humorous Fun-loving 
Even-tempered 
ECTOMORPH Thin 
Under weight 
Narrow   chest   and   abdomen   Narrow 
shoulders and hip Less fat percentage 
Creative Artistic Thoughtful 
MESOMORPH Muscular,   wedge-shaped   body   Broad 
shoulders 
Narrow hips 
Less fat percentage 
Active Combative Dominant 
Courageous 
 
Endomorph 
An endomorphic somatotype, also known as viscerotonic type, is characterised by the social 
temperament  type.  The  psychological  characteristic  traits  of  this  somatotype  include  being 
relaxed,  peaceful,  comfortable,  affectionate,  loving,  tolerant,  and  sociable.  They  are  fun-
loving,  good-  humoured,  even-tempered  people  and  they  love  food.  The  endomorph  is 
physical  ‘round’,  with  wide  hips  and  narrow  shoulders  that  give  them  a  pear-shaped 
appearance because of extra fat on their body. 
Ectomorph 
An  ectomorph  somatotype  is  also  known  as  the cerebrotonic type.  This  personality  type  is 
characterised  as  an  intelligent  temperament.  The  psychological  characteristic  traits  of  this 
somatotype  include  intelligence,  and  emotional  restraint.  These  people  are  introverts. 
Physically, they are always skinny, thin with narrow shoulders and hips with little fat on their 
body.  Their  personality  tends  to  be  self-conscious,  socially  anxious,  quiet,  reserved  but 
artistic and thoughtful. They always keep to themselves and are afraid to branch out. 
Mesomorph 
The mesomorph, known as the somatotonic type, is characterised by predominance of body 
over  social  and  intellectual  temperament.  Physically  they  are  well  built  with  a  muscular 
body, with broad shoulders and a narrow waist. These individuals have very little fat on their 
body.  Psychologically,  the  mesomorphs  are  active,  combative,  dominant,  adventurous  and 
courageous. They are not afraid to break out and do new things with new people. They are 
assertive and prefer vigorous activity and display a keen interest in physical activities. 

 [297] 
Heath Carter Model of Somatotype applicable in sports 
 
In  each  of  the  three  categories  (Endomorph,  Mesomorph,  Ectomorph),  athletes  can  be 
classified  on  a  scale  from  1  to  7.  The  three  numbers  together  give  a  somatotype  number, 
with   first   score   representing   Endomorph   score   first,   then   Mesomorph   and   finally 
Ectomorph.  For  example,  1-7-1  reflects  dominant  endomorph  body  type  or  4-4-4  reflects  a 
balanced  body  type  between  the  three,  many  researchers  have  tried  to  identify  the  body 
types of athletes and relate with suitable sports. 
9.1.5  Jung's Classification of Personality Types 
Carl  Gustav  Jung,  a  Swiss  psychiatrist  and  a  disciple  of  Sigmund  Freud,  was  once  a  great 
admirer of Freud’s view on psychoanalysis and worked with him for five years. However, he 
started  developing  contradictory  views  on  some  of  the  major  assumptions  or  findings  of 
Sigmund Freud and later followed a separate professional path. Therefore, many times, Carl 
Jung is referred to as a Neo-Freudian also. 
Characteristics of Introverts & Extroverts 
Introvert Extrovert 
Interested in their own self 
 
Reserved 
 
Self-aware and introspective  
 
Take pleasure in reading, writing 
 
Tend to shy away from public 
 
Think before acting 
Highly socialized 
 
Broad-minded  
 
Expressive and enjoy centre of attention 
 
Meet unknown people easily 
 
Bold, outgoing and optimistic person 
 
Action oriented 
 
 

 [298] 
Later  he  published  a  book Psychology  Typen (Psychology  Types)  in  1921  and  presented  his 
own theory of personality by classifying personality based on two important aspects. 
First  is  personality  attitude  (introvert  and  extrovert)  and  second  is  personality  functions 
(Sensing, Intuitive, Thinking, Feeling). He can be credited for being the first to introduce the 
concept  of  introversion  and  extroversion  to  the world  of  psychology.  It  was not  a  designed 
to  label  type  of  people,  instead  the  purpose  was  to  demonstrate  the  complexity  of  human 
typology  and  its  consequences.  Let  us  understand  Jung’s  topology  based  on  personality 
attitude and personality functions: 
1. Personality Attitude: which is distinguished as Extrovert or Introvert. 
2. Personality Functions: which can be classified as four distinct function namely; Feeling, 
Intuiting;  Judging  or  Sensing.  The  four  functions  are  divided  into  what  Jung  called 
rational  (or  judging)  and  irrational  (or  perceiving)  functions.  Thinking  and  sensations 
are rational, according to Jung, while intuition and feeling are irrational. 
 
Introvert: In Jung’s theory, introverts are people  who are predominantly interested in their 
own  mental  self.  They  are  typically  seen  as  more  reserved  or  reflective  and  prefer  to  be 
withdrawn  from  external  reality.  They  opt  to  live  in  their  own  inner  world  of  feelings  and 
thoughts and often take pleasure in solitary activities such as reading, writing, or meditating. 
They  prefer  to  create  their  own  virtual  and  imagery  world,  due  to  which  they  tend  to  shy 
away from in public interactions and social connects and are less vocal with people around 
them, due to this, they like to be reserved and within themselves. They are more analytical 
before speaking. 
Extrovert:  In  Jung’s  theory  people  with  an  extrovert  personality  are  the  total  opposite  of 
those with an introvert personality. They prefer the outer world  of things, hence are found 
to  be  more  broad-minded,  are  highly  socialized,  hence  can  meet  unknown  people  easily. 
They are very bold, outgoing and optimistic person. 
  

 [299] 
 
Where you prefer 
to focus your 
attention 
 
Peo
ple 
who prefer extraversion 
tend to focus their 
attention on the outer 
world of people and 
things 
 
  People 
who 
prefer introversion tend to 
focus their attention on the 
inner world of ideas and 
impressions.  
The way you prefer 
to take in 
information. 
 
People who 
prefer 
sensing tend to take in 
information through the 
five senses and 
 
People who 
prefer 
intuition tend to take in 
information from pattern 
and the big picture and 
focus on future 
possibilities. 
The way you prefer 
to make decisions 
 
People 
who prefer 
thinking tend to make 
decision based primarily 
on logic and on objective 
analysis of cause and 
effect.  
 
People who 
prefer feeling 
tend to make decision 
based primarily on values 
and on subjective 
evaluation of person-
centered concern.  
How you prefer to 
deal with the outer 
world 
 
People who 
prefer 
Judging tend to like a 
planning and organized 
approach to life and 
prefer to have things 
settled.  
 
People 
who prefer 
perceiving tend to like a 
flexible and spontaneous 
approach to life and prefer 
to keep their options open 
 
Extroverts tend to enjoy human interactions and to be enthusiastic, talkative, assertive, and 
gregarious.  They  take  pleasure  in  activities  that  involve  large  social  gatherings,  such  as 
parties, community activities, public demonstrations, and business or political groups. They 
also tend to work well in groups. 
Personality Functions: Whether a person is an introvert or extrovert, she/he has a preferred 
pattern to deal with the situations. There can be four basic way or function used by people: 
EXTRAVERSTION 
INTROVERSION 
SENSING INTUITION 
THINKING FEELING 
JUDGING PERCEIVING 

 [300] 
1. Feeling:  Feeling  is  a  preference  for  making  decisions  based  on  values  and  effects  on 
people  rather  than  logic.  People  use  their  emotional  aspects  to  understand  the 
situation and deal according to it. 
2. Thinking: The  capacity  to  decide  objectively  based  on  the  evidence  and  applicable 
principles  is  defined  as  thinking.  People  evaluate  the  information  received  with  logic 
and rationale for dealing with outer world. 
3. Sensing:  Sensing  refers  to  a  preference  for   perceiving  the  world  through  facts, 
evidence, data and details. People use their senses to seek information. They are good 
at looking and listening to understand the world around them. 
4. Intuitive:  Intuition  refers  to  a  preference  for  perceiving  the  world  through  concepts, 
theories  and  abstractions.  People  use  their  perception  and  intuitions  to  understand 
the  situation,  people  around  them,  sometime  its  referred  as  sixth  sense  of  an 
individual. 
According   to   Jung,   the   two   attitudes   of   extraversion   and   introversion   cannot   be 
demonstrated in isolation. It need to be associated with one of the four functions. When the 
two  attitudes  (Extrovert  and  Introvert)  combine  with  four  functions  (Sensing,  Intuition, 
Thinking,  Feeling),  they  form  eight  mental  functions-in-attitude  or  personality  types.  Let  us 
briefly view each of the eight combinations of personality types. 
Extroverted 
Thinking 
Extroverted    thinking    involves    segmenting;    organizing    for    efficiency; 
systematizing;    applying    logic;    structuring;    checking    for    consequences; 
monitoring  for  standards  or  specifications  being  met;  setting  boundaries, 
guidelines, and parameters; deciding if something is working or not. 
Sorting  out  different  colours  and  styles;  thinking  about  the  consequences. 
Extroverts  who  are  thinkers  are  able  to  see  the  world  through  complex  and 
solid  ideas  but  these  complex  ideas  are  often  handed  down  or  moved  on  by 
others. These people often work in fields related to Math and Science. 
Introverted 
Thinking 
Introverted  thinking  involves  analysing;  categorizing;  evaluating  according  to 
principles  and  whether  something  fits  the  framework  or  model;  figuring  out 
the   principles   on   which   something   works;   checking   for   inconsistencies; 
clarifying   definitions   to   get   more   precision;   analysing   options   for   using 
principles. 
Introverts  who  think  see  how  the  world  works  in  a  subjective  and  creative 
way. This analysis is based on internal knowledge. These people often work in 
science fields as well. 

 [301] 
Extroverted 
Feeling 
Extroverted  feeling  refers  to  connecting;  considering  others  and  the  group-
organizing   to   meet   their   needs   and   honor   their   values   and   feelings; 
maintaining   societal,   organizational,   or   group   values;   adjusting   to   and 
accommodating others; deciding if something is appropriate or acceptable to 
others. 
These  people  base  their  judgements  on  factual,  known  information.  They 
form their assessments on social values and beliefs. These people often work 
in business fields and politics. 
Introverted 
Feeling 
Introverted   feeling   means   valuing;   considering   importance   and   worth; 
reviewing for incongruity; evaluating something based on the truths on which 
it  is  based;  clarifying  values  to  achieve  accord;  deciding  if  something  is  of 
significance and worth standing up for. 
They base their feelings on emotions, feelings and beliefs. These people often 
work in the art field. 
Extroverted 
Sensing 
Extroverted  Sensing  refers  to  experiencing  the  immediate  context;  taking 
action  in  the  physical  world;  noticing  changes  and  opportunities  for  action; 
accumulating experiences; scanning for visible reactions and relevant data. 
These  individuals  look  at  the  world  and  interpret  reality.  They  see  what  is 
going and go with it. They are not influenced by other opinions. These people 
often work as taste-testers or proof-readers. 
Introverted 
Sensing 
Introverted  Sensing  involves  reviewing  past  experiences;  "what  is"  evoking 
"what   was";   seeking   detailed   information   and   links   to   what   is   known; 
recalling  stored  impressions;  accumulating  data;  recognizing  the  way  things 
have always been. 
Introverts at times look for a hidden message or meaning to something. They 
do not just look at something and see it being there without a reason. These 
meanings are based on internal reflection. These people often work in the art 
field as well. 
Extroverted 
Intuitive 
Extroverted   Intuition   refers   to   interpreting   situations   and   relationships; 
picking  up  meanings  and  interconnections;  being  drawn  to  change  "what  is" 
for "what could possibly be"; noticing what is not said and threads of meaning 
emerging across multiple contexts. 
These people base their meanings of things on facts rather than feelings. They 
are usually inventors. 

 [302] 
Introverted 
Intuitive 
Introverted Intuition leads people to foreseeing implications and likely effects 
without  external  data;  realizing  "what  will  be";  conceptualizing  new  ways  of 
seeing  things;  envisioning  transformations;  getting  an  image  of  profound 
meaning or far-reaching symbols. 
Introverted Intuitives usually base their decisions on their inner desires. They 
find warmth through subjective ideas. These people usually work as artists or 
religious figures. 
 
Ambivert 
While explaining personality through the term Introvert and Extrovert, there is reference of 
a  third  term  called  Ambivert  which  is  a  relatively  new  term.  Jung  did  not  use  the  word  to 
explain  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  pure  introvert  or  extrovert.  This  concept  was 
supported  by  many  other  later  psychologists.  Ambiverts  reflect  a  blend  of  traits  from  the 
introvert  as  well  as  the  extrovert  along  with  having  some  specific  strengths.  Thus,  an 
ambivert  can  be  defined  as  someone  who  falls  in  the  middle  of  the  introvert/extrovert 
continuum.  An  ambivert  is  moderately  comfortable  with  groups  and  social  interaction,  but 
also  relishes  time  alone,  away  from  a  crowd.  In  simpler  words,  an  ambivert  is  a  person 
whose behaviour changes according to the situation she/he is in. 
 
9.1.6  Big Five Theory of Personality  
Another important trait approach which can provide essential insights into the key elements 
of  personality  is  of  the  Big  Five  Factor  personality  model  offered  by  Paul  Costa  and  Robert 
McCrae.  The  five  personality  traits  also  known  as  the  Five  Factor  Model  of  Personality  and 
sometimes  referred  as  OCEAN.  The  five  domains  or  traits  represented  by  the  acronym 
OCEAN, are Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. 

 [303] 
 
Let us try to understand the attributes of each of the five personality factors on a continuum 
leading from high reflected characteristics at one end to low reflected characteristics at the 
other . 
Openness to Experience (Imaginative vs Narrow Interest): 
Openness   refers   to   dimension   of   personality   which   ranges   from   being   imaginative, 
humorous, intellectual, creative, curious, having broad interests, open to ideas at one end to 
being  closed  to  experience,  suspicious  and  rigid  at  the  other.  In  sports,  athletes  or 
Individuals  scoring  high  on  Openness  are  characterized  by  reflection  of  demonstrating  new 
ideas and skill execution initiatives along with wide variety in ideas. 
EXTRAVERSION (Enthusiastic vs Reserved) 
Extraversion  refers  to  dimension  of  personality  which  ranges  from  having  enthusiasm, 
energy,  positive  emotions,  talkativeness,  assertiveness  at  one end  to  being  reserved, sober 
and cautious at the other. An individual who scored high on extraversion is characterized by 
high  sociability,  is  outgoing  and  has  a  tendency  to  seek  stimulation  in  the  company  of 
others.  Those  who  score  low  on  extraversion  prefer  solitude  or  smaller  groups,  prefer 
activities alone, and avoid large social situations. Not surprisingly people who score high on 
both extraversion and openness are more likely to participate in adventure and risky sports 
due to their curious and excitement seeking nature. 
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS (Organized vs Easy-going) 
Conscientiousness    refers    to    well-organised,    careful,    responsible,    hardworking    and 
dependable   individuals   at   one   end   to   being   relaxed   and   easy   going,   spontaneous, 
disorganized  and  careless.  Numerous  studies  have  found  to  have  a  positive  correlation 
between conscientiousness and cognition, individuals high on conscientiousness have been 

 [304] 
found  to  perform  better  in  academics  as  well  as  in  the  sports  arena  wherever  planning, 
organising skills and decision-making abilities are essential to the task. 
AGREABLENESS (Friendly vs Un-Cooperative) 
Agreeableness   refers   to   compassionate   behaviour   of   an   individual.   Dimensions   of 
agreeableness  range  from  being  good-natured,  cooperative,  trusting  at  one  end  to  being 
suspicious, irritable and uncooperative at the other. It is also a measure of a person’s helpful 
and  friendly  behaviour  nature  and  reflects  whether  that  person  is  generally  friendly  and 
nurturing  or  not.  People  who  score  low  on  agreeableness  tend  to  be  antagonistic  towards 
others and are described as rude and unkind. 
NEUROTICISM (Composed vs Nervous) 
Neuroticism  focusses  on  the  emotional  stability  on  an  individual.  This  trait  refers  to 
dimensions of personality which range from being poised, calm and composed at one end to 
nervous,  anxious  and  excitable  at  the  other.  Individuals  reflecting  high  neuroticism  are 
characterized  by  the  tendency  to  experience  unpleasant  emotions,  and  are  often  found  to 
demonstrate   impulsive   and   hostile   behaviour.   In   contrast,   people   who   score   low   in 
neuroticism  tend  to  be  calm  and  even-tempered.  Athletes’  sports  performances  are  highly 
influenced  by  neurotic  characteristics  and  modern  findings  supports  exercise  and  physical 
activity as an alternate therapy to manage neurotic behaviours. 
BIG 5 Traits Behaviour for High Score Behavoiur for low score 
OPENNESS Curious, Imaginative, 
Intellectual, Creative, Open to 
trying new things, Focused 
Dislikes change, Does not enjoy 
new things, Resists new ideas 
 on tackling new challenges, 
Thinks about abstract 
concepts 
Not very imaginative, Dislikes 
abstract or theoretical concepts 
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS Well-Organised, careful, 
responsible, self-disciplined 
Disorganised, careless, relaxed, 
easy going 
EXTRAVERSION Active, optimistic, sociable, 
interactive , affectionate 
Sober; reserved , cautious , 
AGGREEABLENESS Good Natured, friendly, 
helpful, trusting, cooperative 
Irritable,    suspicious, rude, 
uncooperative 
NEUROTICISM Insecure, nervous, anxious, 
excitable 
Calm, composed, poised, Hardy, 
Secure 
 

 [305] 
I. Tick the correct answers 
1. Endomorph body type according to Sheldon is 
 (a) a round body 
 (b)     a pear-shaped body 
 (c) a wedge-shaped body 
 (d)     a lean and thin body 
2. Which body type can be characterized by a round body and jovial personality? 
 (a) endomorph 
 (b)     ectomorph 
 (c) mesomorph 
 (d)     graphomorph 
3. A person who is bold and outgoing is an 
 (a) Introvert 
 (b)     Extrovert 
 (c) Ambivert 
 (d)     Somatotype 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define Personality? 
2. What does OCEAN represent according to Big Five Theory of Personality? 
3. Comment upon Allport’s Theory of Personality. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Differentiate between Introvert and Extrovert personality? 
2. What are the types of personality traits according to the Big Five Theory? Explain with 
their importance in physical education and sports. 
 
9.2.1  Motivation 
Let  us  re-v   isit  our  initial  discussion  once  again.  Why  did  some  athlete  keep  playing  without 
worrying about pain, discomfort of training, injury or even academic pressure? On the other 
hand, why did many talented athletes stop participating after initial failures? 
Let us consider the two important questions. 
1. What motivates a player to behave in a certain way? 

 [306] 
2. How to motivate an athlete to perform better? 
To answer the questions above, let us start from understanding of the concept ‘motivation’. 
The  term  ‘Motivation’  is  derived  from  Latin  word Movere meaning  ‘to  move’.  The  basic 
reason for any human activity is nothing else but motivation. Motivation is the driving force 
that spurs a person to action It can be explained as a process to initiate, guide and maintain 
behaviour  over  time  as  defined  by  Robert  Baron  (2008).  Motivation  can  also  be  defined 
simply  as  the  direction  and  intensity  of  effort.  Truly,  motivation  is  a  process  of  inspiring, 
guiding the organism to move in a particular direction. 
From  the  above  definitions,  we  can  understand  motivation  is  influenced  by  two  factors: 
Objective  and  Direction.  The  first  factor  ‘objective’  explains  the  ‘why’  of  an  action  or 
behaviour,  whereas  the  second  factor  ‘Direction’  explain  ‘what’  of  an  action  or  behaviour. 
The ‘why’ or objective for a behaviour helps to find the reason for initiating a behaviour. The 
motives or drives to arouse and initiate an action or behaviour may be different for different 
individuals.  The  direction  is  about  ‘what’  an  individual  wants  to  do,  ‘what’  they  plan  to 
achieve.  If  either  objective  or  direction  is  lacking  for  an  action  or  behaviour,  ultimately  the 
quality  of  action  or  achievement  suffers.  It  means,  to  achieve  the  desired  goal  you  need  to 
have  a  purpose  or  desire  which  activates  you  towards  initiating  a  task  in  a  particular 
direction and seeking behaviours to be persistent with enough fuel and energy till the goal is 
achieved.  This  leads  us  to  find  which  are  the  various  motivating  forces  which  energize  us 
towards selection of meaningful tasks with tangible goals that make an individual persist at 
a task till new skills are developed or performance mastery has been achieved as perceived 
with  reasonable  expectations.  Hence,  we  can  safely  conclude  that  motivation  is  one  of  the 
determinants  of  behaviour.  Instincts,  drives,  needs,  goals,  and  incentives  come  under  the 
broad cluster of motivation. 
What  then  is  ‘motivation’?  Psychologists  now  use  the  concept  of  need  to  describe  the 
motivational  properties  of  behaviour.  A  need  is  lack  or  deficit  of  some  necessity.  The 
condition of need leads to drive. A drive is a state of tension or arousal produced by a need. 
It energises random activity. 
 

 [307] 
When  one  of  the  random  activities  leads  to  a  goal,  it  reduces  the  drive,  and  the  organism 
stops  being  active.  The  organism  returns  to  a  balanced  state.  Study  the  diagram  given 
below. 
What  is  it,  then,  that  arouses  the  organism  to  action?  How  does  one  get  this  drive?  The 
answer  can  be  found  in  the  two  terms  ‘Intrinsic’  and  ‘Extrinsic’  motivation. Intrinsic 
motivation involves  doing  something  because  it's  personally  rewarding  to  you.  It  emerges 
from  within  and  is  directly  linked  with  the  natural  instincts  based  on  feelings  of  joy  and 
satisfaction. Extrinsic motivation, on the other hand, involves doing something because you 
want to earn a reward or avoid punishment. Thus, extrinsic motives involve outside forces. 
Let us find out more about the type  of motivation and see how motivation is an important 
aspect in sports and exercise psychology. 
Do you know? 
A  motivation A  state  of  lacking  any  motivation  to  engage  in  an  activity,  characterized  by  a 
lack of perceived competence and/or a failure to value the activity or its outcomes. 
Intrinsic  Motivation When  you  pursue  an  activity  for  the  pure  enjoyment  of  it,  you  are 
doing so because you are intrinsically motivated. 
Extrinsic  Motivation refers  to  behaviour  that  is  driven  by  external  rewards  such  as  money, 
fame, grades, and praise. 
9.2.2  Intrinsic and Extrinsic Motivation 
Intrinsic Motivation: The word intrinsic is derived from the French word ‘intrinseque’ which 
means  inward.  Intrinsic  is  also  referred  as  internal  motivation  which  drives  an  individual 
from within to naturally pursue actions that provide fun, pleasure, fulfilment or challenge. If 
an  individual’s  behaviour  reflects  a  desire  to  pursue  an  action  for  enjoyment,  or  the 
individual  continues  the  activity  in  a  consistent  manner  because  it  provides  a  feeling  of 
satisfaction,  these  can  be  identified  as  intrinsic  motivation  factors  towards  the  directed 
behaviour.  Intrinsic  motivation  includes  satisfaction  of  needs  felt  by  the  individual  which 
comes  from  inside  or  within  and  is  directly  linked  to  the  individual’s  instincts  or  urges. 
Intrinsically  motivated  individuals  are  fully  self-  determined  and  characterized  by  naturally 
getting interested in the activity to seek enjoyment, novelty and challenge in performing the 
action or activity. Thus, in intrinsically motivated behaviours, the reward is the activity itself. 
Just as we have biological needs that we’re driven to pursue in order to live and be healthy, 
we  also  have  psychological  needs  that  must  be  satisfied  in  order  to  develop  and  thrive. 
These  include  the  need  for  competence,  autonomy,  and  relatedness.  Along  with  satisfying 
these  underlying  psychological  needs,  intrinsic  motivation  also  involves  seeking  out  and 
engaging in activities that we find challenging, interesting, and internally rewarding without 
the prospect of any external reward. Participation in sports as a natural urge is an example 

 [308] 
of  internal  motivation  if  participation  is  directly  associated  with  natural  impulse  of  the 
athlete  to  play  and  participate  in  actions  that  create  joy  and  happiness.  People  taking  to 
exercise  and  exploring  their  capabilities  through  suitable  and  enjoyable  tasks  and  activities 
is an example of motivation emerging from within and is referred to as intrinsic motivation. 
Extrinsic Motivation: The word extrinsic is  derived from the Latin word  ‘entrinsecus’ which 
means outward. Just as its meaning suggests, extrinsic motivation is that in which the source 
of satisfaction does not come  from within and the behaviour is  not due to natural  urges or 
impulses.  Instead,  the  behaviour  or  action  is  influenced  by  external  forces  or  drives.  The 
reasons  for  action  are  not  part  of  an  individual’s  character,  but  are  due  to  urges  from 
outside  such  as  prize,  money,  praise,  or  even  punishment.  An  individual  participates  or 
engages  in  activities  because  those  tasks  are  linked  with  various  external  rewards  such  as 
trophies  or  promotions  and  they  are  obliged  to  continue  with  the  task  even  if  it  is  not  in 
their natural character, because the driving force is not interest but rewards. Since external 
factors guide the behaviours and actions, therefore extrinsic motivation it is also considered 
as  controlling  form  of  motivation.  Participation  in  sports  to  win  a  medal  or  prize  instead  of 
an  innate  urge  is  an  example  of  extrinsic  motivation.  In  sports,  extrinsic  motivation  is 
reflected  when  athletes  train  or  learn  new  skills  not  because  of  natural  impulse  but  for 
various external rewards associated with medals, trophies, certificates and recognitions. 
Extension Activity 
Talk to a friend who is an athlete and try to find what motivated him to participate in sports 
Read  the  below  mentioned  responses  and  identify  the  statements  which  most  closely  suit 
your friend’s reason to participate: 
1.     Doesn’t  know  why  he  plays  and  that  he  doesn’t  see  any  particular  benefit  associated 
with it. 
2.     To learn new skill of the sports. 
3.     To gain skill mastery and  perfection. 
4.     Find joy and happiness in  participation. 
5.     Perform to obtain a reward or trophy in the  championship. 
6.     To make the coach happy for getting the best athlete ward in  school. 
7.     Participate to avoid pressure from the family. 
The response of your friend reflects the following about his motivation.  
If YES to: 
Item 1: Reflects Amotivation 
Item 2, 3, 4: he/ she is Intrinsically motivation  
Item 5,6,7: he/ she is Extrinsically motivation 
 

 [309] 
 
Difference between Intrinsic and Extrinsic Motivation 
 Intrinsic Motivation Extrinsic Motivation 
Definition Driving force to pursue an action 
for fun, joy or any other inner 
satisfaction 
Driving force to pursue an action due to 
reward, trophy, money, promotions or 
praise 
Factors Internal factors like joy, 
enjoyment 
External factors like reward, promotion, 
praise 
Method Goal Setting strategies, Family and 
Community support 
Associating success with future benefits, 
awards, promotions and avenues. 
Benefits Long term benefit of maintaining a 
behaviour 
Helpful to initiate or create a drive 
towards a desired behaviour when internal 
factors are missing. 
9.2.3  Motivation Techniques 
Motivation  is  the  process  in  which  the  learner’s  internal  energies  or  needs  are  directed 
towards various goal objects in his environment. In other words, it is the driving force which 
increases  the  desire  to  perform  better. Every  individual  has  certain  basic  motives  or  needs 
that  she/he  tries  to  satisfy.  As  long  as  one  is  satisfied  with  one’s  present  behaviour  and 
knowledge  and  finds  it  adequate  to  satisfy  all  her/his  needs,  she/he  will  not  try  to  change 
his  behaviour  or  acquire  new  knowledge.  To  learn  something  new,  firstly  there  must  be  a 
goal  that  attracts  us  and  secondly  there  must  be  some  obstacle  that  keeps  us  away  from 
attaining  that  goal.  The  reason  is  simple,  because  if  there  is  no  obstacle  in  our  way,  our 
present behaviour and the knowledge that we have already acquired would lead us directly 
to  our  goals,  and  in  such  a  situation  there  would  be  no  need  to  learn.  We  modify  our 
behaviour  only  when  there  is  a  need  to  do  so.  This  enables  us  to  reach  the  goals  that  our 
unsatisfied motives create. Motivation can be generated through various sources like family, 
friends,  relatives,  teachers  etc.  Various  motivational  techniques  can  be  used  to  help 
individuals utilize the available sources available around them with maximum effectiveness. 
In  sports,  motivation  of  athletes  is  of  utmost  importance  and  an  essential  aspect  towards 
success  of  any  athlete.  Let  us  try  to  understand  some  of  the  techniques  used  in  sports  to 
motivate athletes by helping them to maintain their inner urges to continue training as well 
by  utilizing  external  factors  to  supplement  their  drive  to  prolong  with  the  desired  athlete 
behaviours essential for sports performance. 

 [310] 
The    motivational    techniques    are    based    on    the    following    mentioned    approaches. 
Understanding  of  each  approach  will  help  in  developing  unique  strategies  to  motivate 
athletes towards desired behaviours. 
 
1. Cognitive   Approach:   The   active   processing   and   interpretation   of   information 
influences the persistent and purposive drive for action by an individual. It is based on 
the  notion  that  desired  motivation  can  be  achieved  by  an  individual  through  active 
processing  and  interpretation  of  information. Expectancy  theory and Goal  Setting 
theory is  widely  used  as  a  cognitive  approach  for  motivation.  Expectancy  theory 
explains  that  people  are  motivated  for  the  task  where  the  probability  of  success  is 
higher  in  comparison  to  failure.  Whereas  the  goal-setting  concept  maintains  that  a 
stronger  drive  for  actions  and  behaviour  is  fuelled  by  quality  of  information  on  time 
set for task attainment along with task difficulty level and specificity of the task. 
 (a)     Time Bound: The task should be time bound 
 (b)     Set Complexity level of task: Task should be neither too difficult nor too easy 
 (c) Make task Specific: Task instructions should be precise about what is to be done 
 (d) Define Purpose of task: Outcome of the task should be clear and defined. 
2. Pedagogical  Approach:  Teaching  coaching  pedagogies  used  in  sports  training  for 
planned   outcome   is   largely   responsible   in   guiding   and   maintaining   the   desired 
behaviour   of   athletes.   Adequate   communication   and   maintenance   of   positive 
relationship  during  training  is  an  essential  component  influencing  the  motivation  of 
athletes towards a consistent action or behaviour. Making training enjoyable, engaging 
athletes  in  decision  making  and  providing  valuable  feedback  to  athletes  are  essential 
components  to  motivation.  Let  us  discuss  few  techniques  of  motivation  using  a 
pedagogical approach. 
 (a)     Guided  Discovery  Method: Athletes  are  highly  motivated  if  allowed  to  find 
solutions to the problems by themselves rather than if they are just made to do 
things  as  per  instruction.  Lack  of  independence  in  decision  making  and  non- 

 [311] 
promotion  of  cohesive  training  environment  for  athletes  are  major  reasons 
affecting  motivation.  Cooperative  learning  with  opportunities  for  athletes  to 
engage in decision making is an effective strategy towards motivation. 
 (b)     Valuable  Feedback  System: To  persuade  athletes  to  push  harder  for  a  longer 
period  of  time,  they  must  be  provided  with  a  strong  support  system.  Assisting 
athletes with feedback which can provide them with specific direction to move in 
is an effective means towards effective motivation. 
 (c) Fun-based Training: Training should be challenging and task-oriented for optimal 
performance.  However,  for  providing  athletes  with  enough  drive  and  energy  to 
sustain  them,  training  methods  should  involve  fun  and  enjoyment  for  athletes. 
Adding  creativity  and  innovation  to  training  and  the  teaching-learning  system 
helps  in  adding  motivation  for  athletes  to  persist  with  continuous  demands  of 
training load. 
 (d)     Individualized  Training  Program  (ITP/IEP): All  athletes  are  unique  and  respond 
differently  t
    o  the  vast  variety  of  training  demands.  Each  athlete  is  a  unique 
individual and should  have a training programme designed for their abilities and 
capabilities  and  which  is  within  attainable  limits  of  the  athletes.  Individualized 
training  programmes  or  individualized  education  programmes  are  very  essential 
in sports to help athletes to set their own targets, challenges and difficulty levels 
which will not only help them to avoid burnout, but also keep them motivated. 
3. Social  Support  Strategy: Participation  in  sports  and  taking  up  exercise  is  greatly 
influenced  by  an  understanding  of  the  social  networking  and  perception  of  people 
around them. Conducive exercise environment, creating drive among people to initiate 
and maintain sporting behaviour is deeply affected by the societal pressure or support 
provided  to  the  individual.  Positive  social  support  from  peer  group,  family  members, 
and friends helps in developing healthy habits and enough drive to maintain the act of 
exercising.  Initiating  group  activities  and  engagement  of  family  and  peers  in  sports 
participation helps in increased participation in sports and exercise. 
4. Facilitation Approach: 
 (a)     Incentives  and  Rewards:  Drive  towards  an  action  to  maintain  it  for  a  long  term 
may sometimes need external support. Awards and rewards work effectively as a 
motivation force for athletes to pursue sports with consistency and continuity. 
 (b)     Valance  of  Reward: Many  time  prizes  and  awards  are  used  extrinsic  sources  of 
motivation  to  maintain  a  desired  action  or  behaviour.  But,  at  times,  even  these 
may prove to be ineffective. It is essential to understand that external factors like 
prize money or medals do motivate athletes, but the most important aspect is to 

 [312] 
understand  the  need  and  expectation  of  the  individual  athlete,  this  is  known  as 
‘valance’  of the reward or valuing the award. To  be motivated, athletes must be 
awarded  by  considering  what  is  desired  or  expected  by  an  individual  so  that  he 
or she can value that reward. An athlete may like to be rewarded by being made 
the  captain  of  the  team  and  may  value  it more  than  being  rewarded  with  a  pay 
hike. 
 (c) Performance   appraisals: Motivation   or   the   driving   force   for   any   desired 
behaviour  to  last  over  a  long  period  of  time  may  need  support  of  being 
recognised and  praised for the current and past endeavours. It creates the drive 
for  future  action  and  pursuit  of  excellence  with  confidence  among  athletes.  It 
encourages  them  to  plan  their  directions  and  actions.  Regular  appraisal  of 
performance should be provided to athletes and appropriate rewards given. 
 (d)     Quality  Support  and  Facilitation: Motivation  for  an  action  is  influenced  by  the 
amount of facilitation made available for athletes, but the impact is larger only if 
the quality of support is of a high standard. Factors influencing  or  impacting the 
desired   behaviour   of   athletes   need   to   studied,   diagnosed   and   appropriate 
support  needs  to  be  provided  to  ensure  maintenance  of  behaviour  of  highest 
standards. 
9.2.4  Motivation and Sports 
Motivation  is an  integral aspect  of sports and exercise. The  participation  of an individual in 
sports  activities  or  involvement  in  regular  exercise  for  fitness,  health  or  any  other  reason 
revolves around the forces that direct her/him towards that particular task. Therefore, it can 
be said that motivation is central to sports and exercise studies and is an important area of 
study  in  sports  psychology.  It  is  of  great  interest  to  athletes,  coaches  and  parents.  All 
athletes,  coaches,  and  parents  want  the  best  performance  in  sports  and  work  towards 
keeping  their  motivation  level  at  the  best  by  supporting  them  with  all  required  resources 
and  essentials.  Individuals  get  initiated  towards  exercise  or  athletes  join  sports  clubs  or 
academies and continue till achievement of pre-determined objectives due to both internal 
and  external  motivation.  If  an  athlete  participates  in  sports  for  fun  and  enjoyment,  or  an 
individual  continues  with  her/his  exercise  and  fitness  regime  as  it  provides  a  feeling  of 
satisfaction  or  challenge,  these  can  be  identified  as  intrinsic  motivations  factors.  On  the 
other hand, when an athlete participates in sports due to various incentives like cash, prize, 
trophies, a job, promotion or even less tangible rewards such as praise and status, these can 
be  identified  as  extrinsic  factors  of  motivation.  Even  if  the  motive  for  taking  exercise  or 
participating in sports is to avoid punishment,  it is a form of extrinsic motivation, as it is an 
external force which influences the participation behaviour of an individual. 

 [313] 
 
 
Extension Activity 
Find out more about these athletes and what spurred them to such heights. 
 
 
A  large  number  of  studies  and  discussions  about  conversion  of  intrinsic  motivation  into 
extrinsic or vice- versa and benefits or issues associated with it, and with sports participation 
and exercise behaviours have shown  overlapping  or  change  in  motivational  factors.  The 
motivation  reasons  may  reflect  a  shift  from  the  initial  intrinsic  motivation  to  extrinsic 
motivation  later  or  from  extrinsic  motivation  to  intrinsic  motivation  over  a  period  of  time 
due  to  change  in  conditions,  situation  or  other  personal  factors.  People  many  times  start 
with  participation  in  exercise,  physical  activities  and  sports  as  it  gives  them  pleasure,  fun, 
excitement, or they m
ay also go for long distance running, tracking or skiing as these may be 
challenging   for   them.   While   this   initial   intrinsic   motivation   as   a   factor   may   remain 
unchanged over a long period of time for some individuals, for others the reasons to pursue 
the  same  activity  or  task  may  change  with  a  change  in  situation  or  need.  Later,  the  same 

 [314] 
individual’s  motivation  to  participate  in  sports  may  be  guided  by  a  desire  to  win  awards  or 
professional  contracts.  When  extrinsic  motives  like  awards  and  rewards  replace  intrinsic 
factors as primary reasons for engaging in an activity, it becomes difficult for an individual to 
decide  by  herself/himself  about  when  and  where  to  participate  in  an  activity.  Her/His 
behaviours,  actions  and  decisions  are  determined  by  external  motives  and,  she/he  thus 
experiences  a  loss  of  control.  For  example,  children  may  start  playing  cricket  for  fun  and 
excitement,  and  may  be  motivated  to  practice  and  compete  regularly  at  sports  training 
centres but may start feeling the burden of meeting the expectation of coaches and parents 
to succeed, creating a blur between the internal and external motives. This creates a burden 
on  the  participants  to  respond  to  the  expectations  to  succeed.  This  conflict  between  the 
motives  to  exercise  or  participate  in  sports  usually  leads  to  burnout  and  later  to  dropping 
out from sports altogether. 
Do you know? 
Imagine  being  told  that  you  will  never  walk  again!  That  was  what  doctors  told  Kieran  after 
they removed a cancerous tumor from his thigh at the age of 10. The operation went badly, 
so badly in fact, that he woke up screaming in pain from massive nerve damage. Up to then, 
he had been crazy about gymnastics and was determined to become an Olympic champion. 
But  how  could  he  do  that  when  he  could  not  even  walk  now  and  was  confined  to  a 
wheelchair? 
Kieran  was  going  to  show  them  and  he  started  on  the  long  road  to  recovery.  He  was  15 
months  in  a  wheelchair  but  he  persevered  and  was  back  in  the  gym.  But  within  a  few 
months  he  slipped  from  the  high  bar  and  sustained  a  terrible  head  injury.  He  was  so  badly 
injured that frequent blackouts happened when he literally blinked. He missed a whole year 
at  school  but  the  gym  was  beckoning  again.  This  time  though,  he  had  to  overcome  the 
challenges of that awful injury. He had to retrain his brain and get back his co-ordination. He 
returned to school using a walking stick and was cruelly taunted by his classmates. 
It  then  took  him  three  years  to  get  back  to  where  he  had  been  before  the  awful  accident. 
But he suffered several fractures. Then another blow came when his knee snapped just after 
he  had  been  selected  for  the  European  Championships.  Behan  has  said  that  was  when  he 
was about to give up. 
But   he   never   gave   up   and   succeeded   in   becoming   the   Challenge   World   Cup   floor 
champion.in 2011, and  his greatest moment of glory was when he qualified for the London 
2012 Olympics. He had become an Olympic athlete after being through terrible pain, trauma 
and setbacks. A glorious example of the Olympic spirit. 
 
Motivation as a guiding force to initiate, guide and maintain a behaviour  desired for sports 
participation   and   performance   is   well   understood   but   still   motivation   remains   as   a 
challenging task in sports. 

 [315] 
Researchers   around   the   world   have   discussed   the   methods   to   maintain   or   increase 
motivation  of  athletes,  but  little  has  been  done  to  understand  the  reasons  about  why  we 
participate in an exercise or indulge in s activities. Summarizing the conclusions of different 
research, four motives towards sports and exercise behaviour can be identified. 
1. Physical wellbeing; 
2. Psychological wellbeing; 
3. Performance achievement; 
4. Status and Power (assertive achievements). 
All  the  motives  mentioned  above  are  intrinsic  in  nature  and  point  towards  the  reason  for 
sports  participation  and  exercise  as  being  largely  intrinsic  in  nature.  People  participate  in 
sports  and  exercise  for  various  intrinsic  motives  but  external  motives  can  be  added 
wherever or whenever intrinsic motive is reduced. 
 
I. Tick the correct answers. 
1. Motivation  that  drives  individuals  to  naturally  pursue  actions  that  provide  fun,  joy, 
pleasure or challenge is called 
 (a) Extrinsic Motivation 
 (b)     Amotivation 
 (c) Intrinsic Motivation 
 (d)     Cognitive Motivation 
2. Motivation through reward or praise is known as 
 (a) Intrinsic Motivation 
 (b)     Extrinsic Motivation 
 (c) Pedagogical Motivation 
 (d)     Facilitation Motivation 
3. Which of the following is NOT a feature of Intrinsic Motivation? 
 (a) goals 
 (b)     feedback 
 (c) needs 
 (d)     attitudes 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define Motivation. 

 [316] 
2. Differentiate between Intrinsic and Extrinsic Motivation. 
3. Write a short note on any two techniques of motivation. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. How can a coach strategize in motivating an athlete to keep performing? 
2. How does motivating a sports person affect games and sports and how do games and 
sports influence a player’s motivation? 
 
9.3.1  Exercise Adherence  
“If  exercise  could  be  packed  into  a  pill,  it  would  be  the  single  most  widely  prescribed  and 
beneficial  medicine  in  the  nation” –  Dr  Rober  Butler,  Former  Director,  National  Institute  of 
Ageing. 
What  is  it  that  is  a  common  prescription  for  prevention  and  treatment  of  all  types  of 
physical ailments, diseases,  mental  and  social  disorders  faced  by  humans?  There  could 
be  no  better  ‘Magic  Pill’  other  than  ‘exercise’.  Let  us  then  try  and  understand  why  it  is 
difficult to interest a large percentage of the population in taking this magic pill. And what is 
it  that  makes  it  difficult  for  people,  who  start  taking  this  Magic  Pill,  continue  with  it  for  a 
lifetime.  People  are  less  active  nowadays,  partly  because  technology  has  made  our  lives 
easier.  We  drive  cars  or  take  public  transport.  Machines  wash  our  clothes.  We  entertain 
ourselves  in  front  of  a  TV  or  computer  screen.  Fewer  people  are  doing  manual  work,  and 
most  of  us  have  jobs  that  involve  little  physical  effort.  We  move  around  less  and  burn  off 
less energy than people used to. Inactivity has been described as a "silent killer". Evidence is 
emerging that sedentary behaviour, such as sitting or lying down for long periods, is bad for 
health. 
 

 [317] 
Not only should you try to raise your activity levels, but you should also reduce the amount 
of  time  you  and  your  family  spend  sitting  down.  "Previous  generations  were  active  more 
naturally  through  work  and  manual  labour,  but  today  we  have  to  find  ways  of  integrating 
activity into our daily lives," says a health expert. 
As  we  get  used  to  a  sedentary  life,  we  tend  to  exercise  less.  Even  if  we  take  up  exercise 
plans or join a Gym, we do not stick to it, but give up after a few months. 
Let us examine the importance of exercise and the concept of ‘exercise adherence’. 
Concept of Exercise Adherence 
Purposeful  exercise  and  regular  participation  in  physical  activity  are  among  the  most 
important  components  of  lifestyle,  especially  for  older  persons.  Incorporating  regular 
physical activity in the lifestyle is considered an important behaviour that may yield benefits 
especially  for  maintaining  physical  and  psychological  well-being.  While  research  has  shown 
older  persons  who  actively  participate  in  a  long-term  exercise  program  appear  to  have  a 
good  quality  of  life,  regrettably,  majority  of  the  old  people  around  the  world  lead  a 
sedentary  lifestyle  with  very  little  knowledge  regarding  the  importance  of  physical  activity. 
One of the major issues related to participation in an exercise programme is the adherence 
to such a programme. 
The word adherence is described by the Oxford Dictionary as the fact of behaving according 
to a particular rule, etc., or of following a particular set of beliefs, or a fixed way of doing 
something. Thus, in the simplest term exercise adherence refers to the extent to which the 
individual  maintains  an  active  involvement  in  physical  exercise  and  acts  in  accordance 
with the advised interval, exercise dose, and exercise dosing regimen despite opportunities 
and pressures to withdraw. Exercise adherence, therefore, refers not just initiation but also 
maintenance  of  physical  activity  and  exercise  behaviour  according  to  individualized  need 
and  requirement.  It  is  associated  to  the  ‘stickability’  factor  which  is  related  with  quality  of 
any  athlete  or  participants  to  continue  with  sports,  exercise  or  any  other  physical  activity 
without  losing  the  motivation  to  pursue  it  further.  So,  exercise  adherence  can  also  be 
referred  as a  self-  regulated,  voluntary  behaviour  directed  towards  maintaining   an 
exercise  routine  for  a  prolonged  period  of  time  after  initial  phase  of  adoption.  It  is 
important  as  well  as  interesting  to  understand  the  reasons  why  people  adhere  to  exercise 
and the forces that push athletes towards initiating sports participation. 
9.3.2  Reason to Exercise  
Reason to exercise or exercise determinants point towards the importance of motives of an 
individual  towards  initiating  and  adopting  exercise  as  a  part  of  her/his  lifestyle.  We  find 
many people around us with different behaviours towards exercise and physical activity and 
each behaviour can be associated with its own reason for adherence or non-adherence. We 

 [318] 
may  find  many  people  who  have  not  initiated  exercise  or  even  thought  of  exercise  and 
physical activity in near future, or those who think of starting exercise in the near future but 
are not able to initiate the programme, and still  others who started or  initiated an exercise 
programme  but  were  not  able  to  continue  or  adhere  to  it  for  long  and  dropped  out.  Why 
people  find  a  reason  to  exercise,  participate  in  fitness  and  engage  in  recreation  sports  can 
be understood by the following aspects:   
   
1. Overcoming  Social  Physique  Anxiety:   People  in  the  society  are  influenced  by  how 
other perceive them in-term of their looks, fitness or body shape, weight and size. This 
leads to adoption of various means and methods to make them lean and fitter. Exercise 
combined  with  proper  diet  can  help  people  attain  their  goal  to  be  lean  and  fit  thus 
helping overcoming social  physique  anxiety  with  the  means  of  exercise,  fitness  and 
recreation sports program engagement.    
   
2. Reduced  risk  of  disease:  Lifestyle  factors  does  play  an  important  role  toward  rise  of 
various contemporary health issues. Hypertension, obesity are major health concerns in 
the modern day due to increase in facilities and urbanization leading to limited physical 
engagements,   lack   of   physical   activity   and   promotion   of   sedentary   lifestyle.   To 
overcome  the  sedentary  lifestyle,  adoption  of  exercise  and  fitness are  considered  to 
be essential and important.   
   
3. Recreation  :  With  change  in  lifestyle  and  devotion  of  more  hours  on  table  chair  task, 
engagement  in  serious  academics,  focus  on  professional  pathways,  individuals  are 
facing   with   the   challenge   of   finding   time   and   activity   for   recreation,   fun   and 
enjoyment.   Recreation  sports,  fitness  and  exercise  provide  fun,  enjoyment,  recreation 
along  with  the  physical  benefits,  thus  recreation  being  considered  as  an  essential 
reason to exercise.  
   
4. Mental Relaxation: There are various means and methods adopted for stress reduction 
and  mental  relaxation  by  people  of  all  segments,  demography,  age  groups.   Exercise  is 
one   of   the   most   effective   ways   to   cope   with   stress   and   depression   more 
economically and     with tremendous    benefits    to the    society.    Therefore,    people 
participation in exercise for mental relaxation as a reason is relevant.   
   
5. Socialization: Often  people  look  for  opportunities  to  engage  with  community  and 
socialize with friends, peer groups, colleagues etc from their busy life. The engagement 
with society members are essential to overcome social isolation, tackle loneliness which 
can  affect  their  mental  health  and  prevent  camaraderie  spirit  among  peoples  of  the 
society.  Especially  in  the  modern  lifestyle  and  with  urbanization  leading  to  less  time 
available  for  social  connect,  the  most  effective  way  to  connect  socially  is  through 
participation   in   team   sports,   group   exercises   program   and   various   other   fitness 
programs. Thus socialization  qualifies  as  a  reason  for  people  to  engage  and  experience 
exercise and sports programs.   
 

 [319] 
9.3.3  Benefits of Exercise  
1. Health  Benefits: There  has  been  evidence  of  humans  working  hard  and  putting  in 
physical  effort  for  their  survival  and  better  life  since  early  times.  Even  today  people 
across the world desire to lead a healthy life and consider health as the most essential 
aspect of life. With the change in living conditions and transformation in contemporary 
lifestyle,  engaging  in  physical  activity,  exercise  and  sports  has  a  prominence  as  a 
chosen  activity  or  preferred  behaviour  among  people  to  keep  themselves  healthy. 
Modern  lifestyle  has  given  rise  to  health  issues  associated  with  weight  management 
and  cardiovascular  diseases,  for  which  engaging  in  physical  activity  and  exercise  is 
essential.  Exercise  is  the  miracle  cure  we've  always  had,  but  for  too  long  we've 
neglected   to   take   our   recommended   dose.   Our   health   is   now   suffering   as   a 
consequence.   Whatever   the   age,   there's   strong   scientific   evidence   that   being 
physically  active  can  help  you  lead  a  healthier  and  happier  life.  People  who  exercise 
regularly have a lower risk of developing many long-term (chronic) conditions, such as 
heart disease, type 2 diabetes, stroke, and some cancers. Research shows that physical 
activity can also boost self-esteem, mood, sleep quality and energy, as well as reducing 
your risk of stress, depression, dementia and Alzheimer's disease.  
 (a)     Reduces  risk  of  Cardiovascular  Disease:  Exercise  and  a  regular  cardio-fitness 
regime  has  a  significant  role  in  preventing  various  cardiovascular  diseases  like 
hypertension  and  coronary  heart  disease.  Exercise  strengthens  the  heart  and 
improves  circulation.  The  increased  blood  flow  raises  oxygen  levels  in  the  body. 
This  helps  lower  risk  of  heart  diseases  such  as  high  cholesterol,  coronary  artery 
disease,  and  heart  attack.  Regular  exercise  can  also  lower  blood  pressure  and 
triglyceride  levels.  Exercise  can  lower  blood  sugar  levels  and  help  insulin  work 
better. This can cut down risk for metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes. And if 
someone  already  is  suffering  from  one  of  those  diseases,  exercise  can  help 
her/him to manage it. 
 (b)     Weight   Management:   Living   in   a   society   where   physical   appearance   is 
important,  individuals  take  to  exercise  from  a  desire  to  keep  themselves  in 
shape.  Though  they  may  experiment  with  other  methods  for  losing  weight  like 
dieting  and  calorie  control  etc.,  but  these  methods  alone  not  found  to  be 
effective  for  weight  reduction  unless  regular  exercise  is  not  combined  with  diet 
control.  Along  with  diet,  exercise  plays  an  important  role  in  controlling  weight 
and  preventing  obesity.  To  maintain  body  weight,  the  caloric  intake  must  equal 
the energy one burns. To lose weight, one must use more calories than one takes 
in.  Thus,  regular  physical  activity  and  an  active  lifestyle  are  significant  methods 
for effective weight management. 

 [320] 
 (c) Strengthens Bones and Muscles. Regular exercise helps build strong bones. Later 
in  life,  it  can  also  slow  the  loss  of  bone  density  that  comes  with  age.  Doing 
muscle-  strengthening  activities  can  help  you  increase  or  maintain  your  muscle 
mass and strength. 
 (d)     Reduces risk of some Cancers. Exercise reduces risk of cancers like cancers of the 
colon, breast, uterus, and lungs. 
 (e)     Reduces  risk  of  Falls.  For  older  adults,  research  shows  that  doing  balance  and 
muscle- strengthening activities in addition to moderate-intensity aerobic activity 
can help reduce your risk of falling. 
2. Provides  Stress  Relief: Modern  lifestyle  with  its  work  pressure  and  competitive 
lifestyle leads to a lot of stress. The physical effects of prolonged stress are numerous, 
including  a  greater  susceptibility  to  illness,  a  lack  of  energy,  problems  with  sleep, 
headaches, poor judgment, weight gain, depression, anxiety, and a host of other ills. In 
fact,  chronic  stress  can  be  the  culprit  behind  heart  disease,  type  2  diabetes  and  an 
upset  stomach.  Physical  activity,  recreational  sports  and  exercise  are  effective  coping 
strategies  for  relief  from  stress  and  disorders  from  everyday  life.  Yoga  and  aerobic 
exercise are a good way of combating stress. 
3. Increases Happiness: It has been evident to find people engaged in physical activity for 
various  extrinsic  goals  like  weight  loss,  improving  physical  appearance  etc.  but  there 
are  people  who  prefer  to  exercise  and  engage  in  physical  activities  like  recreation 
sports or adventure sports due to their innate nature to experience joy, happiness and 
satisfaction.  During  exercise,  the  body  increases  the  production  of  endorphins  which 
are known to help produce positive feelings and can improve the mood and make the 
individual feel relaxed and happy. 
4. Promotes  Self-Efficacy:  Self-efficacy  is  the  belief  that  one  is  capable  of  achieving  a 
specific  goal.  Regular  exercise  and  participation  in  sports  is  largely  associated  with  an 
individual’s  belief  in  her/his  abilities  to  complete  physical  tasks,  achieve  determined 
goals and produce challenging outcomes. People with high self-efficacy tend to initiate 
exercise  and  physical  activity  with  a  positive  approach  and  respond  positively  to 
regular engagement in sports and exercise demands. They also demonstrate a greater 
degree of exercise adherence than others. 
5. Promotes  Social  Cohesion:  Human  beings  are  social  animals  who  prefer  to  engage  in 
group activities because it given them opportunity to socialize and interact with other 
people.   As   a   result,   many   people   engage   in   exercise   behaviour   and   sports 
participation. Sports and group exercise programmes also prevent boredom and social 
isolation  by  helping  participants  feel  connected  with  the  society  and  community 
around  them  as  team  mates,  opponents  or  even  as  spectators.  Group  cohesion 

 [321] 
developed among participants of exercise group  and sporting members acts as one of 
the important reasons for exercise. 
6. Enhances  Value  Orientation: Knowledge  and  understanding  about  a  healthy  lifestyle 
and   importance   of   regular   physical   activity   creates   a   value   orientation   among 
individuals  to  initiate  exercise  and  later  continue  with  exercise  behaviour.  Value 
orientations represent philosophical beliefs. Values inculcated by physical activity and 
exercise   include   discipline,   enhanced   learning   process,   self-actualization,   social 
responsibility and ecological integration. 
7. Cognitive  Benefits:  Regular  aerobic  activities  lead  to  a  positive  improvement  in 
attention  control  and   information  processing  speed.  Exercise  can  improve  brain 
function   and   protect   memory   and   thinking   skills.   Exercise   increases   heart   rate, 
promoting  the  flow  of  blood  and  oxygen  to  the  brain.  It  can  also  stimulate  the 
production of hormones that can enhance the growth of brain cells. Exercise has been 
shown  to  cause  the  hippocampus,  a  part  of  the  brain  that's  vital  for  memory  and 
learning, to grow in size. This serves to increase mental function. 
 (a)     Attention  Control:  Regular  physical  activity  and  exercise  help  improve  attention 
and  concentration  among  people  of  all  ages.  Physical  exercise  at  a  moderate 
level also revealed positive effects and benefits among the participants. 
 (b)     Improves  Memory:  Physical  activities  have  been  known  to  enhance  intelligence 
especially  among  children.  Even  among  the  elderly,  even  a  small  amount  of 
physical activity delays memory loss. Exercise has been shown to reduce changes 
in the brain that can cause Alzheimer's disease. 
8. Mental Health Benefits: A session of jogging or any physical activity has the possibility 
of  mood  enhancement  and  increasing  the  feel-good  factor.  Issues  associated  with 
depressions, anxiety etc. can be resolved with regular physical activity and exercise. 
 (a)     Exercise  as  therapy  for  emotional  disorder:  Physical  activity  is  an  effective 
intervention  for  various  mental  disorders  like  depression  and  anxiety.  Exercise 
therapy  has  been  able  to  produce  improved  mood,  enhanced  self-esteem  and 
thereby, increase productivity. 
 (b)     Fitness  as  moderator  of  life  stress: Regular  physical  activity  helps  in  creating  a 
positive  attitude  towards  work  by  developing  higher  ability  to  cope  with  stress 
and tension. 
 (c) Runners  High: Participating  in  regular  physical  activity  promotes  a  high  sense  of 
mental alertness, mood upliftment, a feeling of liberation, suppressed discomfort 
and heightened well-being. 

 [322] 
9. Psychological Well-being: Participation in regular physical activity, sports and exercise 
brings positive changes in the mental and physical well-being of an individual. Exercise 
leads to changes in blood flow to brain, increase in oxygen consumption,  reduction  in 
muscular  tension,  improved  metabolism,  creating  a  feeling  of  wellbeing.  Participation 
in  physical  activity  and  exercise  promotes  positive  social  interactions,  improved  self-
esteem,  feeling  of  competency,  along  with  an  opportunity  for  fun  and  joy.  All  these 
collectively  develop  a  sense  of  enhanced  well-being  among  individuals  engaged  with 
physical activity. 
10.    Personality  Enhancement: Participation  in  physical  activity  and  exercise  has  revealed 
significant  influence  on  personality.  Regular  participation  and  long-term  engagement 
in   physical   activities   especially   at   young   age   (before   maturity)   reflects   greater 
extraversion and stability among participants, which are very important characteristics 
or traits of personality. 
11.    Develops    Leadership    Qualities: Engagement    in    an    exercise    programme    and 
participation  in  sports  provides  opportunity  for  individuals  to  experience  adversities 
and  opportunities  to  learn  from  compensating  various  deficiencies  like  lack  of  space, 
inadequate  logistics,  adverse  conditions  and  still  persist  with  prolonged  activities,  so 
developing qualities of  leadership. Sports and exercise opportunities teach individuals 
to  be  equally  effective  in  variety  of  situations  and  conditions  with  ability  to  create 
variations in similar conditions too, developing another important aspect of a leader. 
12.    Special Population: 
 (a)     Clinical  Population:  People  with  intellectual  disabilities  of  all  age  groups  and 
have  found  to  derive  significant  benefits  from  regular  participation  in  physical 
activity. Psychomotor activities help them in enhancement their skills in activities 
related to daily living too. 
 (b)     Elderly  Population: Ageing  is  a  process  which  is  observed  to  be  delayed  among 
the  people  who  are  regular  participants  of  physical  activity  even  of  an  acute 
nature. Even low intensity bouts of exercise prove to be helpful in slowing down 
of the ageing process among the elderly. 
9.4.1  Strategies for Enhancing Adherence to Exercise 
Psychologists  and  therapists  around  the  world  have  widely  professed  the  benefits  of 
exercise.  Although  most  people  do  understand  the  importance  of  physical  activity  and 
regular   exercise,   yet   a   large   percentage   of   them   have   either   not   initiated   exercise 
behaviour,  or,  if  a  few  opted  for  exercise,  they  couldn’t  continue  it  and  dropped  out. 
Therefore, its essential to discuss the strategies for enhancing adherence to exercise. 

 [323] 
1. Goal  setting: A  moderate  bout  of  acute  exercise  (20-30  min)  is  considered  to  be 
beneficial  for  improving  positive  psychological  effects  of  exercise.  Exercise  performed 
above lactate threshold (LT) is perceived as unpleasant and the participant may like to 
discontinue  it  due  to  overexertion  and  discomfort.  Therefore,  along  with  setting  of 
SMART  –  Specific,  Measurable,  Attainable,  Realistic,  Time  based  –  goals.  It  is  also 
essential  to  make  the  goals  flexible  or  reversible  to  prevent  drop-outs  and  help 
participants engage in prolonged participation with added fun and satisfaction. Studies 
show  that  documenting  the  necessary  steps  required  to  achieve  your  specific  goal 
helps in exercise adherence. 
2. Adding  variety  to  exercise:  Lack  of  new  variety  of  exercise  may  lead  to  boredom  and 
dropping  out.  Boredom  can  be  tackled  with  the  addition  of  a  variety  of  exercises  and 
moves that address the same body issues, without loss of therapeutic benefits. Adding 
variety   to   the   exercise   program   through   adoption   of   new   strategies,   changing 
methods,  using  new  equipment,  re-inventing  logistics  and  adding  new  members  can 
induce  fresh  energy  to  the  exercising  activity,  thus  enhance  adherence  to  exercise. 
Even  changing  the  duration,  intensity,  frequency  along  with  change  in  venue  and 
mode of exercising also go a long way in maintaining interest and promoting long-term 
adherence to exercise behaviour. 
3. Social  support  enhancement:  Increasing  social  support  refers  to  engagement  of 
friends  or   other  members  who  can  contribute  towards  positive  participation  in 
physical  activity,  exercise  and  sports  because  social  interaction  may  help  fuel  goal 
achievement  and  thus  produce  good  results.  Creating  of  a  system  of  buddy  partner, 
youth leader, mentor where members of family, a classmate or a friend or relative can 
be  engaged  as  a  motivator  and  flag  bearer  for  exercise.  This  creates  a  strong  social 
support system for enhanced participation experience for athletes and those who are 
engaged in exercise behaviour. 
4. Contract: While  acute  bout  of  exercise  has  been  associated  with  positive  effects, 
chronic  exercise  habits  or  regular  exercise  behaviour  are  important  for  maintaining 
these  benefits.  Therefore,  promoting  participants  for  signing  an  intent  to  comply 
through  a  written  contract  which  has  specified  expectations,  responsibilities  and 
contingencies  for  behavioural  changes  have  found  to  be  more  effective  in  exercise 
adherence among the participants. 
5. Reinforcement  Interventions:  Positive  as  well  as  negative  reinforcement  approaches 
have  found  to  be  effective  in  exercise  adherence.  Use  of  incentives  and  rewards  for 
appreciating attendance and participation or awarding with badges have been proved 
effective  in  maintaining  exercise  behaviour  among  participants  as  well  as  motivation 
from many to initiate and engage in physical activity. 

 [324] 
6. Feedback: Providing  feedback  to  the  participants  in  physical  activity  provides  much 
needed   direction   and   energy   for   prolonging   and   continuing   exercise   behaviour. 
Individualized  feedback  to  the  participants  on  the  quality  of  progress  and  other 
positive aspects about them can create higher levels of motivation and prove effective 
towards exercise adherence. 
7. Process  Orientation:  Exercise  programmes  based  on  outcome  goals  or  product  goals 
like  weight  loss,  physique  and  appearance  etc.  are  found  to  be  effective  in  the  initial 
stages  of  exercise  adoption,  but  it  is  difficult  to  maintain  the  drive  with  prolonged 
exercise behaviour. Helping people to shift from  process goals to product goals which 
are more intrinsic in nature will be more helpful towards becoming lifelong exercisers. 
8. Problem  Solving: This  intervention  is  based  around  identifying  the  obstacles  and 
barriers  that  stand  between  the  participant  and  her/his  physical  activity  goals.  It  is 
important  to  generate  and  implement  solutions,  evaluate  the  outcomes  and  choose 
different solutions if needed. 
9. Health  Risk  Appraisals: Health  risk  appraisals  of  participants  provide  them  with 
relevant  information  about  their  current  health,  risk  factors  and  level  of  fitness.  This 
helps to enhance motivation and can be used to monitor changes over time. It can also 
help  with  regards  to  the  goal  setting  process  as  areas  they  need  to  improve  are 
identified. 
10.    Health  Education: It  is  important  that  participants  seek  information  from  experts  on 
the  benefits  of  exercise,  proper  exercise  techniques  and  the  results  that  should  be 
expected  during  exercise.  This  will  ensure  that  they  truly  understand  why  and  what 
they  are  doing  and  it  will  give  them  the  confidence  and  motivation  required  to 
participate    in    long-term    physical    activity    as    well    as    to    prevent    injury    or 
discouragement. Research has also expressed the importance of health-care provider’s 
and influence they have over participant’s physical activity and the implementation of 
the aforementioned interventions. 
I. Tick the correct answers. 
1. Which of the following is effective for prevention of Coronary Heart Disease? 
 (a) Regular Exercise 
 (b)     Sedentary Lifestyle 
 (c) Medicine 
 (d)     Dieting 
2. Which one of the following is NOT a result of regular exercise? 
 (a) Increased bone density 

 [325] 
 (b) Increased cholesterol level. 
 (c) Strong immune system. 
 (d)     Increased longevity. 
3. Normally people do not adhere to a regular exercising programme due to 
 (a) lack of proper goals 
 (b)     adding a variety of exercises 
 (c) social support enhancement 
 (d)     feedback from instructor 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Briefly list the benefits of exercise. 
2. Mention the strategies to enhance exercise adherence. 
3. What are the psychological benefits of exercise? Explain. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Explain the various reasons to exercise. 
 
 
9.5.1  Aggression 
Players convicted of on-field violence British boxer disqualified after biting 
opponent during heavyweight bout 
We  have  to  delve  back  to  1988  to  find  the 
first   example   in   the   English   game   of   a 
footballer  being  convicted  in  a  court  of  law 
over   on-field   violence.   In   this   case,   Sky 
Sports'  excitable  pundit  Chris  Kamara  was 
the culprit; 'Kammy', then of Swindon Town, 
caught Shrewsbury  Town's Jim Melrose with 
his  elbow,  breaking  Melrose's  cheekbone  in 
the process. 
A British heavyweight boxing match ended in 
chaos  after  a  fighter  bit  his  opponent  and 
was  disqualified  on  Saturday.  The  10-round 
bout  between  David  Price  and  Kash  Ali  at 
Liverpool's  MandS  Bank  Arena  came  to  its 
abrupt    conclusion    the    27-year-    old    Ali 
grabbed  hold  of  his  opponent  before  falling 
on  top  of  him.  He  then  bit  Price  near  his  rib 
cage. 
 
Do  try  to  remember  any  sports  match  where  players  have  been  highlighted  in  media, 
newspapers   or   by   commentators   for   hitting   the   opponents   or   abusing   the   officials, 
spectators  or  their  own  team  members  and  being  referred  to  as  displaying  unsporting  and 

 [326] 
aggressive  behaviour.  Surely,  we  can  recollect  various  occasions  when  athletes’  behaviour 
on  the  field  has  been  aggressive.  In  cricket,  a  bowler  bowling  a  bouncer  or  intimidating  a 
batsman  by  walking  down  the  pitch  towards  him  threateningly,  a  batsman’s  offensive 
reaction  towards  the  umpire  after  his  dismissal  are  few  examples  of  aggressive  behaviour. 
Why  do  athletes  become  aggressive  on  or  off  the  field?  What  are  the  different  behaviour 
outcomes associated with aggressive behaviour? How can these be reduced? These are the 
few  important  questions  which  most  of  the  teachers,  coaches  and  even  parents,  who  deal 
with  athletes  of  different  age  groups  are  worried  about.  Let  us  try  to  understand  the 
concept   o
f   aggression   as   accepted   by   the   world   of   psychology   and   used   by   sports 
professionals in the past several years. 
Do you know? 
Aggression – Aggression is behaviour that is hostile and violates other people's rights. 
Reactive  aggressive  behaviour is  unplanned  and  impulsive,  and  is  usually  a  response  to 
feelings of anger, fear, or a need to retaliate against someone. 
Proactive  aggressive  behaviour is  calculated  and  planned  action  that  has  some  motive 
other than harming someone. 
 
According  to  the  American  Psychological  Association,  aggression  is  a  type  of  behaviour 
aimed  at  causing  physical  or  psychological  harm  to  another.  Most  psychologist  refer  to 
aggression  as  any  behaviour  intended  to  harm  or  injure  any  living  being  who  is  trying  to 
avoid  it.  This  definition  includes  three  important  features.  First,  aggression  is  a  behaviour 
that  can  be  seen.  It  is  not  an  emotion  that  occurs  inside  a  person,  such  as  anger.  Thus, 
aggression  is  a  behaviour  and  needs  to
  be  distinguished  from  anger  which  is  an  emotional 
expression towards someone we feel has done something wrong. Anger, again. need not be 
expressed  through  harm  or  destruction,  but  aggressive  behaviour  will  have  an  intent  to 
cause   physical   or   mental   harm.   Second,   aggression   is   intentional.   Aggression   is   not 
accidental.  It  is  a  deliberate  behaviour  to  harm  or  injure  and  can  be  either  physical  or 
psychological,  ie.,  hitting,  pushing  or  abusing  someone  purposely,  with  an  intent  to  hurt. 
Third, the victim wants to avoid the harm. 
Sport  psychologist  Gill  (2000)  produced  a  four-part  criterion  which  aimed  to  help  us 
interpret whether an action is aggressive in sport. His criteria were: 
 There must be physical or verbal behaviour. 
 It must involve causing harm or injury whether it is physical or psychological. 
 It must be directed toward another living thing. 
 There must be the intention to cause harm or injury. 
Few more definitions of aggression: 
Behaviour that results in personal injury or destruction of property. (Bandura, 1973)
8
 

 [327] 
Behaviour  directed  towards  the  goal  of  harming  or  injuring  another  living  being  who  is 
motivated to avoid such treatment. (Baron and Richardson, 1994)
9
 
The intentional infliction of some form of harm on others. (Baron and Byrne,  2000)
10
 
During last many years much debate and deliberations have been made in the field of sports 
and  exercise  psychology  as  well  as  sports  sciences  towards  an  acceptable  definition  of 
aggression. An acceptable  concept of aggression  along with its two types of aggression has 
been  cited  by  Husman  and  Silva  in  1984  as  ‘hostile’  and  ‘instrumental’  aggression  to 
differentiate between two types of aggression. 
9.5.2  Types of Aggression 
1. Hostile  Aggression: The  term  ‘hostile’  refers  to  being  ‘opposed’,  therefore  hostile 
aggression refers to violent and angry behaviour  where the intent and primary goal is 
to  harm  the  other.  A  boxer  who  punches  the  opponent  below  the  belt  with  the 
primary aim of injuring him because he is losing or an athlete who uses abusive words 
to mentally harm another player who has angered him with better skills are examples 
of hostile aggression. Hostile  aggression is  a type of aggression that is committed in 
response to a  perceived threat or insult. It is  unplanned, reactionary, impulsive, and 
fuelled  by  intense  emotion  as  opposed  to  desire  to  achieve  a  goal.  Aggressors 
typically  have  a  sense  of  a  loss  of  control  during  outbursts,  and  characteristically 
experience  physiological  hyperarousal. Thus,  it  is  also  sometimes  known  as reactive 
aggression.  In  the  examples  given  above,  the  intent  of  action  is  to  physically  or 
mentally  harm  the  other  person  due  to  dislike,  enmity  or  due  to  the  person  being  on 
the  opposing  team  or  side.  Along  with  the  intent,  the  goal  is  also  to  harm  the  other, 
therefore  non-legitimate  measures  or  illegal  methods  to  physically  or  mentally  harm 
the other person are employed. Another important aspect of hostile aggression is the 
kind  of  explanation  given  by  the  athletes  after  the  aggressive  behaviour.  Most  of  the 
athletes don’t apologise for their behaviour, instead they tend to give self- justification 
for their act of violent behaviour. 
Prospect of Losing Makes Me Aggressive, says Viswanathan Anand 
India Today | 21 June 2012 
Speaking at a function for young chess players, the  world chess champion Vishanathan 
Anand  said,  “The  insecurity  of  loosing made  me  aggressive.  I  don’t  show  it  openly  but 
the prospect of losing to some player is so horrifying your might want an extra bit.” 
“Against Topalov (in 2010 world championship) I was able to channel that feeling into 
a willingness to play long games. I was able to feel motivated.” 
“The hunger is still there to go for the next one,” says Anand. “I am often asked how I 
maintain  my  motivation  even  after  five  world  titles.  Frankly,  I  never  took  to  chess 

 [328] 
because it was on some kind o f a checklist. I will keep playing till I enjoy it. The desire is 
still there,” he said. 
(https://www.indiatoday.in/sports/other-sports/story/viswanathan-anand-chess- 
world-champion-niit-delhi-110525-2012-07-21) 
2. Instrumental  Aggression:  The  term  ‘instrumental’  refers  to  ‘serve  as  a  means’  ie., 
aggression  is  being  used  just  as  an  instrument  to  gain  advantage  or  win  and  not 
because  of  anger  or  enmity.  Therefore,  instrumental  aggression  refers  to  aggressive 
behaviour  meant  or  used  to  attain  some  non-aggressive  goals  like  winning,  getting 
money,  prestige  or  gaining  any  other  advantage. Instrumental  aggression  is  harmful 
behaviour  engaged  in  without  provocation  to  obtain  an  outcome  or  coerce  others. 
An instrumental aggression does consist of an aggressive intent to harm an opponent 
physically  or  psychologically  without  necessarily  being  angry.  Instrumental  aggression 
is a behaviour directed at the target as a means to an end. For example, elbowing and 
injuring a player to gain a competitive advantage, or late tackling to stop an opponent 
from   scoring   a   goal.   Another   example   of   instrumental   aggression   is   that   of   a 
basketballer  playing  a  foul  against  an  opponent  with  the  purpose  of  scoring  a  basket. 
Instrumental  aggression  that  has  no  goal  to  harm  is  also  considered  as  an  aggressive 
act because of the aggressive intent. Most of the players prefer to offer apologise for 
their act or behaviour of instrumental aggression. 
Development of Relational Aggression 
A science brief published in Psychological Science Agenda in August 2013 by APA deals with 
development   of   relational   aggression   associated   with   young   children   due   to   media 
exposure.  The  research  work  after  examining  different  types  of  aggressive  behaviour 
discussed the two types of aggression. Along with physical aggression like kicking, pushing, 
it mentions about second type of aggression known as Relational Aggression. According to 
the  study,  relational  aggressive  behaviour  has  an  intent  to  hurt,  harm  and  injure  others 
using  the  relationship.  It  also  uses  threat  of  relationship  against  other  individuals  through 
social  exclusion,  friendship  withdrawal,  spreading  rumours,  false  news  etc.  are  used  as 
goals for the intent of harming. 
https://www.apa.org/science/about/psa/2013/07-08/relational-aggression 
 
An  important  distinction  between  hostile  and  instrumental  aggression  is  that  instrumental 
aggression  is  learned  behaviour,  where  hostile  aggression  is  impulsive.  In  the  majority  of 
situations, neither is an ideal response or solution to your problem. 
From the above concept of aggression, we reach a consensus that from the perspective of a 
sports psychologist, there is no ‘good’ aggression or ‘bad’ aggression. Any behaviour with an 
intent to physically or mentally harm another individual is aggression and  is not acceptable 

 [329] 
on the sports field. An important concept mentioned by the sports psychologists is assertive 
behaviour.   Most   athletic   events   involve   interaction   between   people.   There   is   some 
interchange  of  words,  feelings  and  behaviours.  While  confrontation  is  often  manifest 
through assertion and aggression,  these  two  approaches  have  distinguishing  factors  and 
lead to very different outcomes. Assertive behaviour  is generally seen as a positive form of 
expression, whereas aggression is a negative form of expression. Assertive behaviour has its 
roots in respect for the other individual, while aggression does not; for example, if you voice 
your  opinion  through  aggressive  acts,  you  are  conveying  that  your  feelings  are  more 
important. Aggression also is often counter-productive, while assertive behaviour leads to a 
more  po
sitive  resolution.  Finally,  assertive  behaviour  is  all  about  standing  up  for  yourself 
and your values in an unthreatening manner, while aggression puts others down. 
 Hostile Instrumental Assertive 
Intent Harm or Suffering Harm or Suffering    No harm 
Primary Goal Harm or injure Win or advantage     Win or Advantage 
Process Non-Legitimate Non-Legitimate Legitimate 
Emotion Anger No Anger Unusual effort and energy 
expenditure 
Explanation Self-justification instead 
of apology  
Offer apologies 
 
Aggression Management : A Challenge in Sports 
Behaviour  of  aggression  by  players  is  an  area  of  concern  for  coaches,  parents  across  the 
society  which  need  to  be  minimized  if  not  stopped  or  curtailed  completely.  Few  of  the 
strategies  which  could  be  effective  in  managing  aggression  among  athletes  have  been 
mentioned below: 
1.     Social  acceptable  discharge  medium:  Aggression  is  an  inborn  drive,  according  to  the 
drive  theory  people  have  the  innate  instinct  to  be  aggressive  and  it  builds  up  till  it  is 
discharged (catharsis). There need to be opportunities and space for people to displace 
or  express  aggression  through  a  socially  acceptable  means,  for  example  bout  of 
aerobics, swimming, martial arts kicking pads or punching bags. 
2.     Positive  Reinforcement:  Aggression  has  a  circular  effect,  one  act  lead  to  another 
because the people especially athletes learn the way to release it. The circle need to be 
broken  by  positive  reinforcement  and  not  letting  it  continue.  Providing  space  for 
players to speak and express their opinion is an effective example. 
3.     Negative  Reinforcement:  During  competitions,  any  act  of  violence  should  not  be 

 [330] 
tolerated  or  exempted  and  must  have  strict  rules  of  punishment  for  offending  players 
and  the  team,  whereas  fair  play  point  can  be  awarded  for  players  and  teams  showing 
restrains during aggressive situations. 
4.     Modelling:  People  emulate  their  heros  and  seniors,  young  players  grow  up  watching 
them receive awards, prizes and recognitions, therefore try to copy their behaviour to a 
large extent. Hence aggressive behaviour should not be promoted or appreciated at the 
top level and by the seniors as it will help in reducing the trickle effect. 
5.     Training  and  role  playing:  Athletes  can  learn  to  control  their  hostile  feeling  along  with 
anger through role play and training with experts. Training is effective in regulating the 
emotion of anger that leads to hostile behaviour. 
6.     External Cues: Stimulus which puts preference of winning over participation can lead to 
various  hostile  as  well  as  instrumental  aggression.  Coaches,  parents  must  focus  and 
promote participation over performance, appreciate fare play than winning, discuss fun 
over results. 
 
 
I. Tick the correct answers 
1. Which of the following is a legitimate behaviour? 
 (a) Hostile Aggression 
 (b)     Instrumental Aggression 
 (c) Assertiveness 
 (d)     Proactive Aggression 
2. In instrumental aggression, the main aim is to using aggression. 
 (a) cause harm to the opponent 
 (b)     achieve a positive goal 
 (c) express your feeling of jealousy 
 (d)     show your hostility to an opponent 
3. Aggression is displayed in sports through ................ 
 (a) assertion of views 
 (b)     use of abusive words 
 (c) walking away from the opponent 
 (d)     strictly following the rules 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What do you understand by aggression in sports? 

 [331] 
2. Define hostile aggression. 
3. Define instrumental aggression. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Differentiate between Hostile aggression, Instrumental aggression and Assertiveness? 
2. Describe  various  reaction  of  athletes  which  can  be  classified  as  aggression  and 
 assertive behaviours? 
 
 
Art Integration 
Look at the following caricatures. What do they depict? 
         
Working  in  groups,  design  a  caricature  about  a  sportsperson  from  India  who  has  displayed 
either 
AGGRESSION or ASSERTIVE BEHAVIOUR on the field. 
How to make a caricature. 
There are three essential elements that transcend style and medium and must be present in 
a caricature: 
Likeness  - If  you  can’t  tell  who  it  is  supposed  to  be,  then  it  is  not  successful.  All  good 
caricatures incorporate a good likeness of their subjects. 
Exaggeration   - Without   some   form   of   exaggeration,   or   a   departure   from   the   exact 
representation of the subject’s features, all you have is a portrait. The level of exaggeration 
can vary wildly, but there must be some departure. A straight portrait is not a caricature. 
Statement - I believe a caricature must editorialize in some way. The artist must be trying to 
say something about the subject. It might be something to do with the situation the subject 
is drawn in, it may just be a play on their personality through expression or body language, it 
might  be  a  simple  as  making  visual  fun  of  some  aspect  of  their  persona  or  image. 
Exaggeration  itself  can  accomplish  this  in  some  cases.  The  best  caricatures  say  something 
more about the subject than that they have a big nose. 
 
 
 
 

 [332] 
Case Study 
Read the following Case Study carefully. 
A state sports team  was winning all the tournaments and was highly praised for its efforts. 
An  interview  with  the  team  to  find  and  explore  the  reasons  for  its  continuous  success 
highlighted  the  following  reasons.  As  per  the  report,  the  team  had  many  new  players  who 
were wellorganised, responsible, self-disciplined and precise in their task and contributed to 
the  success of  the  team.  The  Captain  had  been  selected  by  the  team  members  themselves, 
and he was most interactive, sociable and optimistic on the field as well as off it. This made 
him a good leader. 
The best part of the team was that, all its senior players were helpful and cooperative with 
their  juniors  and  were  always  willing  to  listen  to  them.  The  team’s  coach  mentioned  few 
essential elements that had contributed to  the team’s success. According to him, the ability 
to  motivate people plays  a  crucial  role  in  the  team’s  success  more often  than  the  technical 
skills, and this is what separates a good coach from an average one. The coach also referred 
to occasions when players went through the phase of lack of intrinsic motivation. The coach 
realised  that  while  there  are  some  athletes  have  an  innate  drive  to  constantly  strive  for 
success and enjoy their task, there are others who seem to lack internal motivation and need 
extrinsic  factors  like  rewards,  prize,  money  etc.  to  create  the  required  drive  or  required 
behaviour. The team’s psychologist spoke about the aggressive behaviour among the team 
players  against  the  opponents.  It  was  interesting  to  listen  to  various  instances  where  the 
players had instigated opponents or charged at them violently, in anger, but had later tried 
to justify their actions. 
Sometimes,  players  were  found  to  be  abusing  opponents  not  in  anger,  but  to  get  an 
advantage or for the sake of winning, though this behaviour is not acceptable and they were 
awarded punishments as per the code of conduct and rules of sport. 
Read the above story of a sports team and answer the following questions? 
1.   Which trait best reflected the personality of junior players? 
 (a) Introvert 
 (b)     Conscientiousness 
 (c) Neuroticism 
2.   Which member of the team reflected most of the Extrovert traits? 
 (a) Coach 
 (b)     New Members 
 (c) Captain 
3.   Which type of players were recommended for special training with Sports Psychologist? 
 (a) Extrovert 
 (b)     Introvert 

 [333] 
 (c) Mesomorph 
4.   The team sports psychologist is referring to which type of behaviour as non-threatening 
 but confident. 
 (a) Assertive 
 (b)     Hostile 
 (c) Instrumental 
5.   Which are the two types of motivation discussed in the above story? Which, according to 
 you, is the better form? Why? 
 
Answers to Personality Quiz  
1. Extraversion   (Q1,   Q6R);   Agreeableness   (Q2R,   Q7;   Conscientiousness   (Q3,   Q8R); 
Emotional Stability (Q4R, Q9); Openness to Experiences (Q5, Q10R).  
2. ‘R’ denote reverse-scored  item, recode the reverse-scored items (i.e., recode a 7 with 
a 1, a 6 with a 2, a 5 with a 3, etc.). The reverse scored items are 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10.  
3. Take  the  AVERAGE  of  the  two  items  (the  standard  item  and  the  recoded  reverse-
scored item) that make up each scale.  
4. The maximal score can be 14 and minimum score 1.  
 Example  using  the  Agreeableness  scale:  A  participant  has  scores  of  5  on  item  1 
(Extraverted,  enthusiastic)  and  and  2  on  item  6  (Reserved,  quiet). Start  with  recoding 
the  reverse-score  items  (ie.  Item  2  score  was  5) replacing  the  5  with  3.  Second,  take 
the  average  of  the  score  for  item  7  (eg.6)  and  the  recoded  score  for  item  2.  So 
the Agreeableness score would be: (6 + 3)/2 = 4.5.  
  

 [334] 
References 
 
1
  Sivarajan.  K  “Psychological  Foundations  of  Education”  Calicut  University,  Kerala, 
India, 2006. 
 
2 
Sivarajan. K “Psychological Foundations of Education” Calicut University, Kerala, India, 
2006. 
 
3 
Baron. R.A “Psychology” Pearson Education South Asia, New Delhi, 2008. 
 
4 
Sivarajan. K “Psychological Foundations of Education” Calicut University, Kerala, India, 
2006. 
 
5 
Sivarajan. K “Psychological Foundations of Education” Calicut University, Kerala, India, 
2006. 
 
6 
Baron. R.A “Psychology” Pearson Education South Asia, New Delhi, 2008. 
 
7 
Baron. R.A “Psychology” Pearson Education South Asia, New Delhi, 2008. 
 
8
 Bandura, (1973). Aggression A Social Learning Analysis. Englewood Cliffs NJ Prentice-Hall.   
 
9
 Baron, R. A. (1994). Perspectives in social psychology. Plenum Press.   
 
10
 Baron, R. A., & Byrne, D. R. (2000). Social Psychology. Pearson.   
Suggested Reading 
 
 Baron. R.A “Psychology” Pearson Education South Asia, New Delhi, 2008. 
 Cox. R.H “Sport Psychology: Concepts and Applications” Mc Graw Hill, New York, USA, 
2012. 
 Jarvis. M “Sport Psychology” Routledge, New York, USA, 2006. 
 Weinberg.  R.S,  Gould.D  “Foundations  of  Sport  and   Exercise  Psychology”  Human 
Kinetics, Champaign. USA, 2003. 

 [335] 
UNIT-X: SPORTS TRAINING 
Contents 
 Strength:  Definition,  Types  and  Methods  of  Improving  Strength-  Isometric,  Isotonic 
and Isokinetic 
 Endurance:   Definition,   Types   and   Methods   to   Develop   Endurance-   Continuous 
Training, Interval Training and Fartlek Training 
 Speed:  Definition,  Types  and  Methods  to  Develop  Speed-  Acceleration  Run  and  Pace 
Run 
 Flexibility: Definition, Types and Methods to Improve Flexibility 
 Coordinative Abilities: Definition and Types 
 Circuit Training- Introduction and Importance 
Learning Outcome 
At the end of this unit students will be able to: 
 classify Isometric, Isotonic and Isokinetic training 
 understand different methods of endurance development 
 differentiate different method to improve flexibility 
 explain Coordinative Abilities 
 describe Circuit Training 
Discussion 
Choose  any  sport  that  you  would  like  to  play.  Research  5  exercises  you  can  do  to  increase 
your  performance  in  the  sport.  You  will  need  to  include  what  the  exercise  is,  how  to 
properly perform the exercise (include pictures if needed), what muscles are used, and why 
this exercise will improve your sports performance. 
Name of Exercise How to properly 
perform the 
Exercise 
The muscles that 
are used in the 
Exercise 
Why this Exercise 
will improve your 
sports performance 
    
    
    
    
    
 
 

 [336] 
10.1.1   Introduction 
Sports  training  is  a  multidimensional  process  for  preparing  athletes  on  several  aspects  like 
technical skills, tactical efficiency, fitness proficiency and various other physical, mental and 
social aspects required for optimal performance.  Fitness is one of the very essential aspects 
for  all  athletes  for  improving  performance  and  preventing  injury  while  developing  skill 
proficiency.    Fitness    components    like    Strength,    Speed,    Endurance,    Flexibility    and 
Coordinative ability does play an integral role in  athlete performance but  it needs scientific 
training  for  development  and  improvement  at  desired  level  and  optimal  level.    There  are 
various  scientific  methods  of  training  and  developing  the  different  fitness  component,  lets 
try to understand the training aspect of each of the basic Sports fitness components.  
10.1.2   Strength  
According to Singh, (1991)
1
, “Strength is the ability to overcome resistance or to act against 
resistance.” 
According to Barrow and McGee
2
, “Strength is the capacity of whole body or any of its part 
to exert force.” 
Strength is one of the most important motor components of fitness and plays a major role in 
all sporting events. It is the amount of force that muscles can produce to complete a task. In 
simple  words,  strength  is  the  ability  of  a muscle  or  a  group  of  muscles  to  act  or  overcome 
resistance.  The  development  of  strength  also  influences  the  other  motor  components  of 
fitness like speed and endurance. 
As  all  movements  in  sports  are  caused  by  muscular  contraction,  therefore,  it  can  be  said 
that  strength  is  a  part  and  parcel  of  all  the  motor  abilities,  technical  skills  and  tactical 
actions. 
10.1.3   Types of Strength  
Almost all sports and games require some amount of strength according to their nature. For 
example, a weightlifter requires different kind of  strength in different amount as compared 
to a basketballer shooting a ball in the ring. Thus, different sports require different types of 
strength, which can be classified as follows: 

 [337] 
 
1. Maximum Strength: It is the ability of a muscle to overcome maximum resistance in a 
single repetition or single maximal voluntary contraction. Maximum strength means to 
exert  force  against  resistance  in  maximal  effort.  Though  maximum  strength  does  not 
hold much importance in majority of sports but is certainly required in sports like long 
jump, shot put, javelin throw, weightlifting, discuss throw, etc. 
2. Explosive  Strength: It  is  the  ability  of  the  muscles  to  overcome  resistance  as  fast  as 
possible. In other words, it can be said that it is a combination of strength and speed. 
Explosive   strength   is   highly   specific   to   the   nature   of   movement   and   is   greatly 
influenced  by  motor  coordination.  This  type  of  strength  is  mainly  used  in  spiking  of 
volleyball, jumps in basketball, sprint events, etc. 
3. Strength  Endurance: It  is  the  ability  of  a  muscle  to  overcome  resistance  under  the 
condition  of  fatigue  or  as  long  time  as  possible.  Strength  Endurance  is  the  ability  of  a 
muscle  to  perform  repeated  contractions  and  withstand  fatigue.  Just  like  explosive 
strength, strength endurance is a product of two  motor abilities namely; strength and 
endurance.  Strength  endurance  can  be  static  or  dynamic  strength  depending  upon 
whether the movement is isometric (static) or isotonic (dynamic). This type of strength 
is  mainly  used  in  long  distance  races,  swimming,  distance  cycling,  Tug  of  War  (static) 
etc. 
Do You Know? 
Factors Determining Strength 
1.     Muscle composition 
2.     Gender 
3.     Age 

 [338] 
4. Size of the muscle 
5.     Number of muscle fibres. 
6.     Body weight 
7.     Muscular coordination 
10.1.4   Methods to Develop Strength  
As  stated  earlier,  strength  is  a  highly  trainable  motor  component  and  therefore,  there  are 
certain  methods  that  help  an  athlete  to  develop  or  improve  strength.  These  methods  are 
discussed below: 
1. Isometric Exercise: The term isometric combines the Greek words isos meaning equal 
and metria meaning measuring.  This  means  that  in  these  exercises  the  length  of  the 
muscle and the angle of the joint do not change,  though contraction strength may be 
varied.  In  isometric  exercises  muscle  and  joint  movement  is  not  visible  as  there  is  no 
direct movement and the work performed cannot be seen directly eg., pushing a wall. 
Although  work  is  done  when  pushing  a  wall,  ie.,  force  is  exerted,  but  the  work  done 
cannot  be  seen  as  the  wall  remains  at  the  same  place  and  doesn’t  move  a  bit.  When 
such exercises are done there is no change in the length of the muscle, hence they are 
called   “isometric.”   These   exercises   need   less   time   and   equipment   and   can   be 
performed   practically   anywhere   and   everywhere.   These   exercises,   if   performed 
regularly, may result in the change of muscle size and shape. 
 
Picture Source
3
  
2. Isotonic  Exercise:  The  term isotonic comes  from  the  Greek isos meaning equal and 
tonos or tone. The word isotonic means maintaining equal (muscle) tone. The muscle 
maintains  equal  tone  while  shortening  in  isotonic  exercise.  These  are  exercises  in 
which movements can be seen directly. Isotonic exercises result in toned muscles and 
increased  muscle  length.  These  exercises  have  great  importance  in  sports.  Running 

 [339] 
and jumping  on  the  spot,  weight  training  exercises,  calisthenics  exercises  are  some  of  the 
examples  of  isotonic  exercises.  This  method  is  considered  to  be  the  best  method  to  develop 
strength. 
 
Picture source
4
 (Gwin & Ferris, 2012) 
 
3. Isokinetic  Exercises:  The  term isokinetic comes  from  the  Greek isos meaning equal 
and kinetic means movement,  so  isokinetic  stands  for equal  movement.  This  method 
of  exercise  was  introduced  by  J.J.  Perrine  in  1968  and  involves  special  type  of  muscle 
contraction  called  isokinetic  contraction  generally  used  in  sporting  events  like  rowing 
and  swimming.  These  exercises  are  performed  on  specially  designed  instruments.  In 
isokinetic  contraction,  the  muscles  apply  maximal  force  throughout  the  range  of 
motion  around  the  joint.  Whereas,  in  isotonic  contraction,  the  force  is  applied  at  a 
particular   angle.   The   use   of   isokinetic   contraction   is   very   limited   hence,   the 
contribution  of  isokinetic  contraction  in  developing  strength  is  yet  to  be  scientifically 
proved. 
 

 [340] 
Do you Know? 
Preventive Measures in Strength Training 
While doing strength training appropriate supervision is a must as it is always accompanied 
with a high risk of injury. Therefore, it is very important to know the ways of preventing such 
incidents. These are: 
1. Strength training must be done after proper warming up. 
2. Strong and stable joints are a prerequisite for strength training. Therefore, strength and 
stability of Musculo-Skeletal system must be ensured by doing general strength training 
with low intensity. 
3. While  exercising  with  heavy  weights,  correct  technique  is  required.  Otherwise  it  will 
result in serious injuries. 
4. A strength training programme includes a variety of exercises. These exercises must be 
done  in  a  proper  sequence  preferably  agonists  and  antagonists  muscles  one  after  the 
other. 
5. The load must be increased gradually and as per the athlete’s ability and requirement. 
6. Recovery  or  rest  plays  a  vital  role  in  strength  training.  Proper  and  effective  use  of 
recovery period helps in preventing injuries. 
7. Improper  breathing  while  exercising  with  heavy  weights  lead  to  serious  disturbance  in 
the blood circulation. Hence, as a rule, a sportsperson must breathe continuously and if 
he/she holds the breath, it should be for a minimum duration possible. 
8. Safety equipment like belts, boots, wrist bands etc. should be used when necessary. 
9. In case of children, the load should be low till the age of 16 years as chances of injuries 
are very high in children. 
 

 [341] 
Extension Activity 
Under the supervision of your physical education teacher form yourselves into two groups. 
Tell one group to do isometric and the other to do isotonic exercises one hour in a day for 3-
5 days in a week. Test their strength after two months. Prepare a table and evaluate which 
method is better. 
Date _ _/_ _/_ _ _ _/ to _ _/_ _/ / 
 
Name: 
Objective: 
Warm up  
Activity 
 Set Repetition Time Distance Intensity Remarks 
       
       
       
       
       
Strength 
Training 
Exercise 
      
 Set Repetition Weight 1 RM Rest  Remarks 
       
       
       
       
Cool Down 
Activity 
      
 Set Repetition Time Distance Intensity Remarks 
       
       
       
       
       
       
 
 
I. Tick the correct options. 
Q1.    Isokinetic method was developed by    . 
 (a) HC Buck 
 (b)     Joy Perrny 
 (c) J.J. Perrine 
 (d)     JJ Coubertin 
 

 [342] 
Q2. In Exercise no movement takes place. 
 (a) Isometric 
 (b)     Isotonic 
 (c) Isokinetic 
 (d)     Isonomic 
Q3.    Under which kind of strength would you put Shotput? 
 (a) Strength Endurance 
 (b)     Explosive Strength 
 (c) Maximum strength 
 (a) Speed Strength 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What is Strength? 
2. Explain Isometric exercise with suitable examples. 
3. Write a short note on the different types of Strength. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Explain the preventive measures to be kept in mind during strength training. 
2. What is Strength? What are various methods for developing Strength? Write in detail. 
 
10.2.1   Endurance 
Harre (1986)
5
 defines endurance as “the ability to resist fatigue.” 
Barrow and McGee
6
 define  endurance  as  “the  result  of  a  physiologic  capacity  of  an 
individual to sustain movement over a period of time.” 
Endurance is, thus, the ability of an individual to sustain an activity for a long period without 
undue  fatigue.  Like  strength,  endurance  is  also  a  conditional  ability.  Endurance  has  been 
studied  thoroughly  and  deeply  because  it  holds  great  importance  in  health,  training  and 
competition.  Endurance  play  a  vital  role  in  almost  every  activity  directly  or  indirectly.  It  is 
either  measured  by  the  number  of  repetitions  of  a  task  or  the  time  for  which  an  activity  is 
performed. 

 [343] 
Specific Endurance 
Basic Endurance 
Types of Endurance -- Nature of Activity 
General Endurance 
 
Picture source : (douglas, 2018)
7
 
 
10.2.2   Types of Endurance 
 
Different  games  and  sports  require  different  type  of  endurance  which  majorly  can  be 
classified into the following categories: 
1. Classification according to the Nature of the Activity: 
 This  classification  is  based  on  the  kind  of  activity  for  which  endurance  is  required.  It 
can be classified into following types: 

 [344] 
Long-time 
Endurance 
Speed Endurance 
Types of Endurance -- Duration of 
Activity 
Medium-
t
ime 
Short-
term 
 (a)     Basic  Endurance:  Basic  Endurance  is  the  ability  of  a  person  to  resist  fatigue  in 
which the load is of medium intensity and involves aerobic muscular metabolism. 
Therefore, it can be said that it is the ability to do movements that involve a large 
number  of  muscles  at  a  slow  pace  for  a  prolonged  period  of  time.  For  example: 
jogging, cycling, swimming for more than 30 minutes. Basic endurance forms the 
base for all other types of endurance. 
 (b)     General   Endurance:   General   Endurance   is   the   ability   to   do   such   sporting 
movements,  for  prolonged  duration,  that  are  general  in  nature.  This  type  of 
endurance  is  not  specific  to  any  sport  and  can  be  developed  by  performing 
general exercises. Unlike basic endurance, in which the intensity of the activity is 
medium,  general  endurance  activities  may  incorporate  high  intensity  exercises. 
But the duration for general endurance is much shorter than basic endurance. 
 (c) Specific  Endurance:  Specific  Endurance  is  the  ability  that  is  required   by  a 
sportsperson  to  perform  movements  of  a  particular  sport  in  order  to  resist 
fatigue.  Specific  endurance  varies  from  activity  to  activity  as  it  depends  on  the 
nature of fatigue. For example: specific endurance of a hockey player is different 
from a marathon runner or a cyclist as the need of the activity is different. 
2. Classification according to the Duration of the Activity 
 
This  classification  takes  into  consideration  only  cyclic  sports  activities  and  is  based  on 
physiological factors. From the view point of Harre (1986), this classification can be divided 
into following sub-categories. 
 Speed  Endurance:  Speed  Endurance  is  the  ability  to  resist  fatigue  in  cyclic  activities 
that last up to 45 seconds. A classic example for this type of endurance is 400m sprint 
in  track  and  field  events.  This  type  of  endurance  is  largely  dependent  on  the  power 
and capacity of an individual to produce energy. 
 Short  Term  Endurance:  Short  Term  Endurance  is  needed  for  the  activities  that  last 
from  45  seconds  to  about  2  minutes.  The  most  appropriate  example  for  short  term 

 [345] 
Method 
Fast Continuous 
Method 
Slow Continuous 
Method 
Interval Method 
endurance  is  800m  run.  This  endurance  depends  majorly  on  speed  endurance  and 
strength endurance. 
 Medium Time Endurance: To  resist fatigue in activities that lasting from  2 minutes to 
about 11 minutes medium time endurance is used. The most common example of this 
type  is  1500m  and  3000m  run  and  100m  rowing.  Similarly,  as  short-time  endurance, 
this type of endurance also depends on speed and strength endurance but to a limited 
extent. 
 Long  Time  Endurance:  Long  Time  Endurance  is  needed  for  the  activities  that  last  for 
more  than  11  minutes.  This  type  of  endurance  is  required  in  events  like  marathons, 
cross country races etc. 
10.2.3   Methods for Developing Endurance 
  
 
 
 
 
The various methods to develop endurance are discussed below: 
1. Continuous Method 
 
Picture Source
8
 
Fartlek Method 
Developing Endurance 

 [346] 
As  the  name  suggests,  this  method  is  about  continuity.  In  this  method,  an  exercise  is  done 
for a long duration of time without any rest. Because the duration of the activity is long and 
continuous in nature, the intensity of the activity is set to be low. This method has following 
sub categories: 
(a) Slow Continuous Method: in this method, the activity is performed at a certain speed 
without  any  break  for  a  long  duration.  The  speed  of  exercise  is  usually  determined 
according  to  heart  rate.  For  a  trained  athlete,  heart  rate  during  activity  should  be 
between  140-160  beats  per  minute.  The  duration  of  the  activity  should  not  be  less 
than 30 minutes. This method is used for activities like walking, running, cycling etc. 
(b)     Fast Continuous Method: in this method, the activity is performed at a comparatively 
fast pace but the speed will remain uniform throughout the activity. Heart rate during 
the activity should be between 160-180 beats per minute. Because the intensity is high 
and  is  more  strenuous  and  exhaustive  than  slow  continuous  method,  the  duration  of 
the activity should be at least 20 minutes. 
Extension Activity 
Working in groups, plan a video of exercises to improve endurance. 
Record the video and put it on YouTube. 
 
2. Interval Method 
This is the most versatile method used for improving endurance. In this method, the activity 
is done at a comparatively high intensity with intervals or breaks of incomplete recovery. It 
is  based  on  the  principle  that,  “work  should  be  done  with  sufficient  speed  and  duration  so 
that  the  heart  rate  goes  up  to  180  beats  per  minute.  After  this  there  should  be  a  short 
interval  and  when  the  heart  rate  drops  down  at  to  120-  130  beats  per  minute  the  work 
should be started again.” 
 
Picture Source
9
 

 [347] 
3. Fartlek Method 
Fartlek is a Swedish word which means ‘speed play’. In other words, it is another variation of 
variable  pace method.  The difference between the two is,  in the Fartlek method the speed 
variation  is  not  planned.  The  athlete  changes  the  speed  with  his  own  accord  during  the 
activity  due  to  the  changes  in  terrain,  surroundings  and  his  feelings.  The  heart  rate  usually 
ranges between 140-180 beats per minute during this method. The duration of this method 
may range from 15 minutes to 1 hour. Due to the varied pace, this exercise is very strenuous 
and should be done by trained athletes. 
 
Picture Source
10
 
Do you Know? 
Volume:  It  is  primary  component  of  training  which  include  duration  or  time  of  training, 
distance covered, volume load (sets in weight training), number of repetition, or performed 
work in given time. It is a quantitative component of work. 
Intensity: It is a qualitative component of work. More work or efforts done by the athlete in 
per unit  of time. Assessment of intensity vary sports to sports. Speed is assessed by meters 
per second, resistance in kilogram, in team games or distance races may be assess by heart 
rate etc. 
 
 
 
 

 [348] 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1.    Which is not a type of endurance according to nature of activities 
 (a) Basic Endurance 
 (b)     General Endurance 
 (c) Specific Endurance 
 (d)     Speed Endurance 
Q2.    400m sprint event comes under 
 (a) Speed Endurance 
 (b)     Short Endurance 
 (c) Medium Endurance 
 (d)     Long Endurance 
Q3.    There will be no variation in pace in activity in 
 (a) Fartlek Method 
 (b)     Continuous Method 
 (c) Interval Method 
 (d)     None of Above 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define Endurance. 
2. Write about the different types of Endurance based on duration of activity. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Explain types of endurance according to the duration of the activity. 
2. Explain types of endurance according to the nature of the activity. 
3. What do you mean by endurance? Explain methods to develop endurance in detail. 
 
10.3.1   Speed 
Theiss and Schnabel
11
 defined  speed  as  “the  prerequisite  to  do  motor  actions  under  given 
conditions (movement task, external force, individual prerequisite) in minimum of time.” 
Johnson and Nelson
12
 defined speed as “the capacity of an individual to perform successive 
movement of the same pattern at a fast rate.” 
Speed  is  an  ability  to  do  task  in  minimum  possible  time.  Speed  has  a  complex  nature  and 
depends  considerably  on  the  central  nervous  system.  Speed  ability,  in  sports,  signifies  the 
ability to execute motor movements as quickly as possible. These movements can be cyclic 
or acyclic in nature. 

 [349] 
Movement Speed 
Speed Endurance Reaction Ability 
Types of Speed 
Locomotor Ability 
Acceleration 
Ability 
There are certain factors that helps in determining the speed of an individual. These include 
mobility  of  the  nervous  system,  explosive  strength  of  an  individual,  correct  technique  of 
performing  a  task,  bio-chemical  reserves  and  metabolic  power  of  an  individual,  flexibility, 
and  certain  psychic  factors  like  optimum  arousal,  attention,  motivation,  concentration, 
ability to relax etc. 
10.3.2   Types of Speed 
 
From general point of view there are five different types of speed that are discussed briefly 
as follows. 
1. Reaction Ability: Reaction Ability is the ability to react quickly to a stimulus or signal. It 
depends  entirely  on  the  coordinative  abilities  of  an  individual.  Different  games  and 
sports  have  different  types  of  signals  like  visual,  auditory  and  tactile  to  name  a  few. 
And  to  respond  to  such  signals  accurately  and  as  quickly  as  possible  is  known  as 
reaction ability. It can be further classified into simple and complex reaction ability. 
2. Acceleration  Ability:  Acceleration  Ability  is  the  ability  to  achieve  high  speed  of 
locomotion  from  a  stationary  position.  It  depends  greatly  on  the  explosive  strength, 
technique  and  movement  frequency  of  a  sportsperson.  This  ability  is  important  in 
almost every game and sport, but holds a great influence in sprinting events. 
3. Movement Speed: Movement Speed can be defined as the ability to perform a single 
movement in the minimum possible time. It is  highly related to acyclic sports, though 
in  cyclic  sports  its  importance  is  limited  to  the  initial  phase.  It  is  dependent  on  the 
technique and explosive strength of the sportsperson. 
4. Locomotor  Ability:  Locomotor  Ability  is  the  ability  to  maintain  maximum  speed  when 
in  motion  for  maximum  possible  duration  or  distance.  It  is  important  in  sports  like 
100m  and  200m  sprints,  speed  skating  and  short  sprints  in  cycling.  Locomotor  ability 

 [350] 
Pace Runs Acceleration Runs 
Methods For Developing Speed 
depends  highly  on  the  mobility  of  the  nervous  system.  The  chances  of  improving 
locomotor ability is relatively low. 
5. Speed  Endurance:  Speed  Endurance  is  a  combination  of  two  words  speed  and 
endurance.  It  is  the  ability  to  move  at  a  high  speed  for  a  longer  duration  of  time  ie., 
under the condition of fatigue. It depends highly on anaerobic capacity, technique and 
psychic factors. 
10.3.2   Methods for Developing Speed 
Speed is a motor ability that depends on genetic and environmental factors. Genetic factors, 
as  we  all  know,  cannot  be  manipulated.  An  individual  having  fast  twitch  fibres  in  a 
comparatively higher percentage than slow twitch fibres will have more speed. Whereas the 
individual  who  has  a  high  percentage  of  slow  twitch  fibres  will  have  better  endurance.  The 
ratio  of  these  muscle  fibres  cannot  be  changed.  Therefore,  it  can  be  said  that  the  genetic 
make-up  of  an  individual  sets  the  limit  on  the  speed  of  an  individual,  but  the  role  of 
environmental  factors  on  speed  cannot  be  denied  as  well.  The  following  are  the  most 
commonly used methods to develop speed of an individual. 
 
1. Acceleration  Runs:  This  method  is  generally  used  to  develop  speed  while  attaining 
maximum speed from a static position. In acceleration run, a sportsperson  is required 
to  run  a  specific  distance.  After  the  start,  the  athlete  tries  to  gain  maximum  speed  at 
the earliest and finishes the specified distance at that speed. These runs are repeated 
with  sufficient  rest  between  the  runs.  It  usually  takes  50-60  meters  for  a  sprinter  to 
attain maximum speed after the start. According to the researchers, it is observed that 
even well-trained athletes can maintain their maximum speed for 20 meters only. 
 The number of acceleration runs can be set according to the age, capacity and level of 
fitness  of  an  athlete.  It  may  vary  from  6-12  repetitions  with  intervals  for  complete 
recovery in between. The acceleration runs must be done after proper warm up. 
2. Pace Runs: Unlike acceleration runs, pace runs incorporate the method of running the 
set distance at a uniform speed. It usually includes races of 800 meters and above. It is 

 [351] 
a  fact,  that  an  athlete  can  run  a  distance  of  300  meters  at  full  speed  and  in  case  of 
longer races he must conserve his energy by reducing speed. Therefore, in middle and 
long- distance races it is important to keep the pace in mind. In the beginning of such 
races the speed should not be too high and the pace should be maintained throughout 
the  race.  For  this  type  of  training  the  athlete  should  run  at  a  maximum  steady  speed 
for  a  distance  10-20%  more  than  the  actual  racing  distance.  Repetition  for  pace  run 
training  can  be  fixed  as  per  the  fitness  level  of  the  athlete with  complete  recovery  in 
between repetitions. 
 
Do you Know? 
Muscles  are  responsible  for  body  movement.  These  muscles  are  made  up  of  fast  and  slow 
twitch muscle fibres. 
Fast twitch fibres: They execute fast movement for short distance also known as anaerobic 
muscle. It helps in short distance races, weight lifting, jumping etc. 
Slow twitch fibres: They promote long duration activity in slow pace, also known as aerobic 
muscles. Example are long distance running, swimming, cycling etc. 
 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1.    Which is not a type of Speed 
 (a) Reaction 
 (b)     Sprinting 
 (c) Acceleration 
 (d)     Speed endurance 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What are acceleration runs? 
2. Define Speed. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Explain types of Speed and methods to develop speed. 
 
  

 [352] 
10.4.1   Flexibility  
Flexibility  is  also  known  as  range  of  motion  around  a  joint.  It  is  the  ability  to  execute  a 
movement  with  greater  amplitude  or  range.  Flexibility  is  a  motor  component  which  is  not 
clearly a conditional or a coordinative ability. In general usage, flexibility often corresponds 
to  stretchability,  elasticity,  litheness,  mobility,  pliancy  etc.  But  as  a scientific  term  flexibility 
means much more than what is conveyed by any of these terms. Flexibility can be defined as 
the ability to execute movements with greater amplitude or range. Flexibility  is affected by 
muscle  strength,  structure  of  the  joint,  tendons,  ligaments  and  other  factors.  A  person 
possessing  a  good  degree  of  flexibility  can  perform  daily  tasks  with  greater  ease  and 
comparatively  more  efficiently  and  effectively.  Moreover,  the  personality  and  posture  of 
such individuals seems to be more attractive. 
Flexibility is related to the genetic factors as well as physical activity programme. Tight joints 
affect  smooth  and  efficient  movements  whereas  flexibility  ensures  smooth  and  efficient 
movements.  Therefore,  it  can  be  said  that  flexibility  is  helpful  in  many  ways  such  as  in 
preventing  injuries,  improving  posture,  reducing  back  pain,  maintaining  healthy  joints, 
improving  balance  while  making  movements  and  in  learning  various  skills  easily,  for 
example, backstroke in swimming. 
10.4.2   Importance of Flexibility  
Flexibility has an important inter-relationship with other factors that improve performance. 
Hence,  it  is  important  in  determining  other  factors  to  a  lesser  or  greater  extent.  The 
importance of flexibility is briefly discussed below: 
1. Greater range of motion ensures more force and speed developed by the muscles. 
2. Greater  flexibility  helps  the  sportsperson  to  perform  movements  with  minimum 
muscular tension, thereby facilitating higher movement economy. 
3. It reduces stiffness in joints. 
4. It reduces the risk of injuries as muscles are more pliable. 
5. It helps in maintaining appropriate posture while performing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 [353] 
10.4.3   Types of Flexibility  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flexibility is of following two types: 
1. Passive  Flexibility:  The  ability  to  do  movements  with  greater  amplitude  with  external 
help  is  known  as  passive  flexibility  eg.,  stretching  with  the  help  of  a  partner,  an 
accessory, or a prop. You can also use the floor or a wall. Passive flexibility allows you 
to stretch more than active flexibility and is determined largely by the structure of the 
joint and stretchability of the muscles and ligaments. Actually, passive flexibility is the 
base of active flexibility. 
 
Picture Source
13
 
Passive 
Flexibility 
Types of Flexibility 
Active 
Flexibility 
Dynamic Flexibility 
Static Flexibility 
General and Specific Flexibility 

 [354] 
2. Active  Flexibility:  The  ability  to  perform  a  movement  with  greater  amplitude  without 
an  external  help  is  called  active  flexibility.  It  is  the  range  of  motion  that  you  can 
achieve by using your muscles to put your joint there, eg., using your shoulder muscles 
to pull your arm back behind your ear as far as you can. Active flexibility is always less 
than  passive  flexibility  and  the  difference  between  the  two  indicates  lack  of  muscular 
strength  or  coordination  or  both.  Active  flexibility  is  further  classified  into  following 
two categories: 
 (a) Static  Flexibility:  it  is  required  for  movements  done  while  the  individual  is  in  a 
static position i.e. standing, sitting or lying. 
 (b)     Dynamic Flexibility: it is required for executing movements when an individual is 
moving. 
 
Picture Source 
14
 
10.4.4   Methods of Improve Flexibility  
In  addition,  the  terms  General  and  Specific  Flexibility  are  also  used  often  to  refer  to  the 
types  of  flexibility. General  flexibility refers  to  the  level  of  flexibility  of  all  the  important 
joints of the body such as shoulder, hip and trunk. It is not used in reference to any sporting  
event  or  physical  activity.  However, specific  flexibility should  be  understood  to  be  the 
ability to perform specific movement or movements related to specific sports. 

 [355] 
Ballistic Method 
Slow Stretch and Hold 
Static 
Dynamic 
 
 
 
The various methods that can help to improve flexibility are discussed below. 
1. Slow Stretching: The first and the foremost way to improve flexibility is stretching the 
muscles around the joint slowly. The key point to note here is the stretching should be 
slow and without any jerky movements. 
2. Slow  Stretch  and  Hold:  The  next  stage  after  the  stretching  is  to  hold  for  about  6-8 
seconds  at  the  maximum  stretching  point.  This  method  is  considered  to  be  the  most 
commonly used methods in the field of games and sports. 
 *Stretching can be done either in a static manner or in a dynamic manner. 
 Static  stretching involves  slowly  easing  into  stretching  and  holding  the  position.  The 
time  period  required  for  static  stretch  depends  on  the  purpose.  If  it  is  for  cooling 
down, the stretch should be held for about 10 seconds. If it is for improving flexibility, 
then the hold is recommended for about 30 seconds. 
 Dynamic  stretching requires  controlled  movements,  usually  of  legs  and  hands,  and 
where  the  event  requires  dynamic  movement,  it  is  suitable  to  perform  dynamic 
stretching exercises. 
3. Ballistic Method: This form of stretching uses body’s momentum in an effort to extend 
range  of  motion.  In  this  method,  the  movement  is  performed  with  a  swing  and  in  a 
rhythmic  way.  As  the  stretching  is  done  in  a  rhythmic  manner,  it  is  called  Ballistic 
Method.  Ballistic  method  was  once  quite  popular  but  has  now  come  under  the 
scanner  with  many  physical  therapists  condemning  it  as  they  believe  that  ballistic 
stretching can lead to injury. 
4. Proprioceptive  Neuro-Muscular  Facilitation  (PNF)  Technique:  This  is  also  known  as 
the  post-isometric  stretch  and  is  based  on  the  principle  of  proprioceptive  neuro- 
muscular facilitation. This principle states that, if a muscle is contracted maximally for 
a  few  seconds,  then  after  the  contraction  the  muscle  gains  the  maximum  relaxation. 
Thus, the muscle is first contracted for 5-7 seconds and then gradually stretched to its 
Proprioceptive 
Neuro- Muscular 
Facilitation Technique 
Slow Stretching 
Methods to improve Flexibility 

 [356] 
maximum  limit  and  held  in  this  position  for  about  8-10  seconds.  The  process  is  to  be 
repeated 4-8 times for each muscle group. 
Do You Know? 
Important Tips for Developing Flexibility 
1. The right age for flexibility development is considered to be before puberty as it is hard 
to develop flexibility after puberty. 
2. Flexibility tends to deteriorate once improved, if the stretching routine is not continued. 
3. Stretching  exercise  performed  in  fatigue  affects  flexibility  negatively.  Hence,  a  person 
should perform such exercises when fresh. The ideal time to perform stretching exercise 
is after warm-up. 
4. Flexibility exercise tends to work best after a proper warming up. If the warm up is not 
performed properly it may lead to overstretching of the muscles. 
5. Flexibility  training  should  aim  for  optimum  flexibility  and  not  for  maximum  flexibility. 
Too much flexibility results in less joint stability and therefore chances of injury increase. 
6. A  muscle  group  must  be  stretched  several  times  for  improving  flexibility  effectively. 
Usually 10-15 repetitions are recommended for a muscle group to gain flexibility. 
7. A  stretching  exercise  should  be  accompanied  by  a  conscious  effort  to  relax  antagonist 
muscles. 
8. It is important to avoid jerky movements while performing stretching exercise. 
9. Age  has  an  inverse  relationship  with  flexibility.  Therefore,  do  not  compete  with  others 
while working on one’s level of flexibility. 
10. For  faster  improvement  in  flexibility,  the  routine  can  be  followed  daily  or  twice  a  day 
with involving variety of exercises for each joint. 
 
Extension Activity 
Good  flexibility  can  improve  sports  performance  and  reduce  risk  of  injury.  Look  at  the 
following exercises for improving flexibility. 
Do as many as you can, increasing the number of exercises and number of repetitions. 
Chart your progress. 

 [357] 
 
 
Picture source 
15 
 
 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1.    Which is not a type of Flexibility? 
 (a) Active 
 (b)     Passive 
 (c) Ballistic 
 (d)     Stretch 
Q2.    In which method is stretching done in a rhythmic way? 
 (a) Slow stretch 
 (b)     Slow stretch and hold 
 (c) Ballistic method 
 (d)     PNF 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. Define flexibility. 

 [358] 
2. What do you mean by Passive Flexibility? 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Explain types of Speed and methods to develop speed. 
2. Discuss methods to improve flexibility. 
3. Define Flexibility. Explain its types and any two methods to develop flexibility. 
10.5.1   Coordinative Abilities 
Zimmerman  et  al.  state  that “Coordinative  abilities  are  understood  as  relatively  stabilised 
and  generalised  patterns  of  motor  control  and  regulation  processes.  These  enable  the 
sportsman to do a group of movements with better quality and effect.” 
The  term  coordinative  abilities  has  come  into  existence  replacing  the  earlier  used  term 
agility. The concept of coordinative abilities should be understood as the ability expediently 
to form, coordinate and, link into an  integrated whole the motive actions on  one hand and 
secondly  the  ability  to  transform  action  already  worked  out  under  dynamic  situations. 
Coordinative  abilities  are  primarily  dependant  on  the  motor  control  and  regulation  process 
of central nervous system and of one of its properties which Ivan Pavlov called plasticity. For 
a  coordinative  ability,  the  control  regulation  processes  are  required  to  function  in  a 
particular  manner,  which  is  automatized  to  a  great  extent  during  skill  performance.  The 
coordinative  abilities  are  those  abilities  of  an  individual  which  enable  the  individual  to 
perform a variety of skill activities properly as well as efficiently 
 
In  sports,  following  seven  types  of  coordinative  abilities  are  important.  The  use  of  these 
abilities is however different in different games. 
1. Orientation  Ability:  Orientation  ability  is  the  ability  to  determine  and  change  the 
position  and  movements  of  the  body  in  required  time  and  available  space  in  relation 
to a definite field of action (such as a volleyball court, skating rink, or football ground) 
and/or  a  moving  object  (like  a  ball,  opponent,  or  partner).  The  use  and  demands  on 
orientation  ability  is  vast  in  sports.  For  example:  in  gymnastics,  the  body  movement 
Orientation 
Rhythm Ability 
Balance Ability 
Reaction Ability 
Coupling 
Ability 
Types of Coordinative Ability 
Adaptation 
Ability 
Differentiati
on 

 [359] 
and  position  is  important  for  orientation.  Whereas  in  team  games,  vision,  especially 
peripheral vision, is decisive for orientation. 
2. Differentiation  Ability:  Differentiation  Ability  is  the  ability  to  attain  high  level  of  fine 
tuning  of  movement  phases.  It  is  the  ability  to  achieve  high  level  of  accuracy, 
perfection  and  economy  of  separate  body  movement  and  movement  phases  in  a 
motor action.  The  high  level  of  differentiation depends on movement experience and 
the  degree  of  mastery  over  motor  action.  High  differentiating  ability  is  used  in  sports 
in  sensing  or  implementing  movement  such  as  movement  sense  eg.,  in  gymnastics 
differential ability enables highly precise and accurate movements according to a given 
set of movements, or in football, there needs to be coordination of head and feet. 
3. Coupling  Ability:  Coupling  ability  is  the  ability  to  coordinate  body  part  movements 
with one another and in relation to a definite goal-oriented body movement. Coupling 
ability is important in sports in which movements with a high degree of difficulty have 
to  be  performed  with  a  great  deal  of  accuracy  and  precision  such  as  gymnastics  and 
team games. In a team game like football foot movements for ball control or dribbling 
have to be coupled with the whole-body movement of running and jumping. Coupling 
ability depends on the functional capacity of kinaesthetic and optic sense organs. 
4. Rhythm  Ability:  Rhythm  ability  is  the  ability  to  perceive  the  rhythm  of  a  movement 
and to perform the movement with the required rhythm. It also denotes the ability to 
reproduce  rhythm,  stored  in  motor  memory,  in  motor  action.  In  some  sports  like 
gymnastics  and  figure  skating  the  sportsperson  has  to  perceive  an  external  rhythm, 
music,  and  to  express  it  in  his  movements.  Sports  in  which  rhythm  is  not  given  from 
outside, the sportsperson has to make use of the rhythm stored in his memory. 
5. Reaction  Ability:  This  is  the  ability  to  react  quickly  and  effectively  to  a  stimulus. 
Different  games  and  sports  have  different  types  of  signals  like  visual,  auditory  and 
tactile  to  name  a  few.  And  to  respond  to  such  signals  accurately  and  as  quickly  as 
possible  is  known  as  reaction  ability.  It  can  be  further  classified  into  simple  and 
complex reaction ability. 
6. Adaptation Ability: Adaptation ability is the ability to adjust or completely change the 
movement  programme  on  the  basis  of  changes  and  anticipated  changes  in  the 
situation.   These   situational   changes   may   be   expected   ones   or   may   take   place 
suddenly. It depends considerably on the speed and accuracy of perception of changes 
in the situation. 
7. Balance  Ability:  it  is  the  ability  to  maintain  equilibrium  or  balance  throughout  the 
movement  and  to  regain  balance  quickly  after  balance  disturbing  movements.  It  is 
further classified into two types: 

 [360] 
 (a) Ability  to  maintain  balance  during  stationary  position  or  slow  movements.  It 
depends on kinaesthetic, tactic and to some extent on vestibular sense organs. 
 (b)     Ability   to   maintain   or   regain   balance   during   rapidly   changing   positions.   It 
depends primarily on the functional capacity of the vestibular sense organs. 
 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1. Ability  to  coordinate  body  part  movements  with  one  another  and  in  relation  to  a 
definite goal oriented body movement is known as: 
 (a) Balance Ability 
 (b)     Adaptation Ability 
 (c) Rhythm Ability 
 (d)     Coupling Ability 
Q2.    Ability to attain high level of fine tuning of movement phases is known as: 
 (a) Differentiation Ability 
 (b)     Orientation Ability 
 (c) Adaptation Ability 
 (c) Coupling Ability 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What do you mean by the term coordinative abilities? 
2. What is coupling ability? 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Write about coordinative abilities in detail. 
2. What is coordinative abilities and explain different types of coordinative ability? 
10.6.1   Circuit Training  
According  to Adamson and Morgan
16
, “Circuit  training  is  the  training  method  in  which 
certain  exercises  of  various  kinds  are  performed  with  or  without  apparatus  with  given 
dosage.” 

 [361] 
Circuit  training  method  was  designed  by  Adamson  and  Morgan  of  Leads  University  in  the 
year   1957.   It   is   a   scientific   arrangement   of   exercises   performed   systematically   and 
repeatedly in such a way that it looks like a circuit. Therefore, it is called circuit training. 
It  is  a  method  of  training  and  conditioning  that  involves  multiple  stations  that  make  a 
complete circuit (or  circle).  It  usually  consists  of  10-12  training  stations  according  to  the 
need  and  intensity  required  for  the  training  programme.  Recovery  period  between  the 
stations and between the circuits is controlled. 
 
Fig. 1: A Circuit 
Description: 

 Purpose of the circuit training is to develop Muscular endurance. Activities include  
On the spot running: 1 minute 
Hurdles: 10 jumps over the hurdles 
Sit-ups: 10 repetitions 
Bench press: weight 60 % of 1RM x 10 repetition 
Lunges: 10 
Rope skipping: 50 skipping 
Medicine Ball Throw: 10 throws of 10 kgs weight ball 
Shuttle run: 10m x4  
On the 
spot 
running 
Half Hurdle
Chin 
CIRCUIT 
TRAININ
Sit-
Shuttle Bench 
Medicine 
Ball 
Throw 
Lunge
Rope 
Skippin
g 

 [362] 
Chin ups: 10 repetitions  
Half Squat: 10 repetitions 
 No rest between exercises  
 One minute rest after one cycle  
 One to three cycles may be performed  
 
Illustration-2 
Description: 
 Purpose of the circuit training is to develop power of lower body. 
 Duration of different Planks: one minute each 
 Lunges and Squats jumps: 20 repetitions each 
 No rest between exercises  
 One minute rest after one cycle  
 One to three cycles may be performed  
10.6.2   Main Characteristics of a Circuit  
1. Exercises in a circuit are simple to learn and execute. 
2. Exercises are usually performed with medium resistance or medium weight. 
3. Frequency or number of repetitions vary as per the need of the programme. 
4. Aim of circuit training is to develop endurance and strength. 
5. It takes into account exercises of the whole body. 
Back 
Planks 
(Elbow)
Side 
Lunges
Side 
Planks 
(Elbow)
Jump 
squats
Planks 
(Elbow)
Lunges

 [363] 
6. It  is  generally  given  in  the  preparatory  phase  of  developing  basic  endurance  and 
strength. 
7. The load must be gradually increased. 
10.6.3   Impact of Circuit Training  
1. It improves cardiovascular fitness of a sportsperson. 
2. It improves general fitness by incorporating exercise that involves the whole body and, 
hence,   improves   a   variety   of   motor   components   like   strength,   flexibility   and 
endurance. 
3. It  enhances  VO2  max  (maximal  oxygen  consumption)  which  means  the  body  can take 
more oxygen to be utilized by muscles. 
4. It further enhances consumption of oxygen by muscles. 
6. It  improves  muscle  strength.  But  it  does  not  improve  maximum  strength  or  explosive 
strength. 
7. It  improves  muscular  endurance.  However,  circuit  training  alone  cannot  train  a  long- 
distance runner for the peak performance. 
Case Study 
After getting their fitness levels assessed, and with understanding of mechanical analysis of 
their  movement,  the  three  boys,  Ram,  Shyam  and  Vinay  decide  to  improve  the  different 
components  of  fitness.  Since  they  are  in  class  XII,  and  involved  in  competitive  sports,  their 
focus  is  also  admission  to  the  top  colleges  and  universities  on  the  basis  of  their  sports 
performance. Their physical education teacher has informed them that most of the colleges 
give  importance  to  physical  fitness  and  sports  skill  tests.  Their  teacher  felt  their  current 
fitness  level  was  not  up  to  the  mark  and  stressed  on  the  need  for  implementation  of 
scientific sports training methods. The students were eager to know how this was different 
from  the  way  they  were  training  earlier.  Their  teacher  explained  the  concept  of  ‘Sports 
training’  as  a  planned  and  controlled  process  in  which,  for  achieving  a  goal,  changes  in 
complex  motor  performance,  ability  to  act  and  behaviour  are  made  through  measures  of 
content, methods and organisation. He emphasised that, sports training is the basic form of 
preparation   of   sportsmen,   and   that   the   preparation   of   a   sportsperson   represents   a 
multidimensional  process  of  purposeful  utilisation  of  the  factors  –  means,  methods  and 
conditions  –  which  help  in  enhancing  the  physical  fitness  levels  of  the  sportsperson  and 
ensure the requied level of his sports performance ability. The boys started their training for 
speed,  flexibility,  coordination,  strength  with  a  scientific  approach  under  the  guidance  of 
their  teacher  who  created  specialized  and  specific  training  plans  for  them  along  with 
periodization of their schedule for each of the three individuals. Maximal Strength, Explosive 

 [364] 
Strength  and  Strength  Endurance  were  planned  through  Isometric,  Isotonic  and  Isokinetic 
exercises.  Another  essential  component  of  training  was  specific  endurance,  for  which 
continuous  method,  and  Fartlek  training  methods  were  used.  PNF  stretching  along  with 
ballistic stretching method, static and dynamic stretching methods were also adopted in the 
training  session.  A  training  method  with  variety  of  exercises  at  multiple  stations  with 
controlled   recovery   period   was   also   implemented   with   planned   dosage,   which   was 
thoroughly  enjoyed  by  the  athletes  and  proved  effective  in  developing  aerobic  capacity 
through increased Vo2 max and cardiovascular endurance.  
Q. Which method is best suited for developing strength? 
 (a)    Interval method 
 (b) Isometric method 
 (c)     Ballistic method 
 (d)    Continuous method 
Q. To develop muscular endurance; which method will be most suitable? 
 (a) Circuit training 
 (b)    Isokinetic training 
 (c)     Repetition method 
 (d)    Static method 
Q. Aerobic capacity can be increased by ___________ method 
 (a) Circuit training 
 (b)    Isokinetic training 
 (c)     Isotonic training 
 (d)    Static method 
Q. Ballistic method can used to develop _________ 
 (a)    Strength 
 (b)    Endurance 
 (c) Flexibility 
 (d)    Speed 
Q. Which is the training referred with ‘multiple stations’?  
 (a)    Interval Training 
 (b) Circuit Training 
 (c)     Continuous Training 
 (d)    Fartlek Training 
 
 
 

 [365] 
 
 
I. Tick the correct option. 
Q1.    Circuit Training Method was designed by: 
 (a) Adamson and Morgan 
 (b)     Morgan and Morgan 
 (c) Adamson and Adamson 
 (c) None of Above 
Q2.    Ability to attain high level of fine tuning of movement phases is known as: 
 (a) Differentiation Ability 
 (b)     Orientation Ability 
 (c) Adaptation Ability 
 (d) Coupling Ability 
II. Answer the following questions briefly. 
1. What do you understand by circuit training? 
2. Write characteristic of circuit training. 
III. Answer the following questions in 150-200 words. 
1. Write in detail about circuit training. 
 
Art Integration 
Physical Education is a required program that is offered to every student in your school. The 
purpose  of  Physical  Education  is  to  promote  lifelong  learning  in  both  the  physical  and 
cognitive  domains.  Physical  Education  is  a  sequential  educational  program  that  teaches 
students   how   to   understand   and   participate   in   physical   activities   that   can   assist   in 
developing  and  maintaining  physical  fitness  throughout  their  lifetimes.  It  teaches  students 
to  understand  and  improve  their  motor  skills.  It  encourages  students  to  enjoy  using  their 
skills,  knowledge  and  good  decision-  making  abilities  to  establish  a  healthy  lifestyle  and  to 
understand how their bodies work. 
Physical Education ... it’s about life. 
Deliver  a  speech  to  students  taking  admission  in  Classes  6-11  about  the  importance  of 
Physical  Education  in  life  and  the  expectations  the  school  has  of  them  in  the  daily  PE 
programme. 
 

 [366] 
 
References: 
1
 Singh, H. (1991). Science of Sports Training. New Delhi: DVS Publications. 
2
  Barrow,  H.  M.,  &  McGee,  R.  (2000).  Barrow  and  McGee's  Practical  Measurement  and 
Assessment . Lippincott Williams and Wilkins. 
3
  Biswas,d.  (2018).Top  10  Isometric  Workouts  to  Improve  Strength.  Retrieved  11  25,  2020, 
from https://www.indianworkouts.com/isometric-workouts 
4
  Gwin,  J.  T.,  &  Ferris,  D.  P.  (2012).  An  EEG-based  study  of  discrete  isometric  and  isotonic 
human lower limb muscle contractions. Journal of NeuroEngineering and Rehabilitation . 
5
 harre, D. (1986). trainingslehre. Berlin: Sportverlag 
6
  Barrow,  H.  M.,  &  McGee,  R.  (2000).  Barrow  and  McGee's  Practical  Measurement  and 
Assessment . Lippincott Williams and Wilkins. 
7
 douglas, s. (2018, 11 27). Fearing That Big Hill? Here’s How to Deal With It. Retrieved from 
https://www.runnersworld.com/training/a25308981/how-to-deal-with-hills-in-races/ 
8 
The Lineup: Running and Cycling Races in Vancouver. (2015, 07 24). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from 
https://www.precisionathletics.ca/the-lineup-running-and-cycling-races-in-vancouver/ 
9
 Rizzo, N. (2020, 03 31). Sprint Interval Training:  Burn  40% More Fat Than HIIT in  60% Less 
Time.  Retrieved  11  25,  2020,  from  Run   Repeat:  h
ttps://runrepeat.com/sprint-interval-
training 
10
 Fartlek and Interval Paddle Training for Max Results. (2017, 01 07). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, 
from https://paddlesociety.com/fartlek-interval-paddle-training/ 
11
 Schnabel, T. G., & SCHNABEL, G. L. (1980). Training von A bis Z. Berlin. : Sportverlag. 
12
  Johnson,  B.  L.,  &  Nelson,  J.  K.  (1969).  Practical  measurements  for  evaluation  in  physical 
education. Minneapolis, Burgess Pub. Co. . 
13
  Pilates  improves  flexibility  through  its  dynamic  and  static  stretching  exercises.  (2018,  04 
30). Retrieved 11 25, 2020, from https://pilates.com.sg/pilates-improves-flexibility/ 
14
  STATIC  VS.  DYNAMIC  STRETCHING.  (n.d.).  Retrieved  11  25,  2020,  from  RISE  Physical 
Therapy: https://www.risephysicaltherapy.com/blog/static-vs-dynamic-stretching 

 [367] 
15
  Brady,  D.  (2013,  03  18).  Whole  Body  Stretching  Routine.  Retrieved  11  25,  2020,  from 
Sports Science: https://www.sportsscience.co/flexibility/whole-body-stretching-routine/ 
16
 Adamson, M. at.el. (1972). Circuit training. London: Bell.   
Suggested Reading 
 Hardayal  Singh,  “Sports  Training:  General  Theory  &  Methods”  Netaji  Subhas  National 
Institute of Sports, 1984. 
 Bompa, T. O., & Buzzichelli, C. (2019). Periodization Theory and Methodology of 
Training. Human Kinetics. 
 Singh, H. (1991). Science of Sports Training. New Delhi: DVS Publications. 





--- MS TEXT ---





















