GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR BUSINESS DATA
Introduction
4
Learning Objectives
In the pr evious chapter , you wer e intr oduced to
the basic features of spreadsheet and use of
spreadsheet in accounting.  Quite often, we have
to present the data for communication of the
accounting information. If mass of data is presented
in the raw form, it may not be easily
understandable. It is rightly said, “A picture is
worth more than thousand words”. This chapter
seeks to explain the method of preparing graphs,
charts and diagrams showing the data through
the use of Excel as a tool.
4.1 GRAPHS AND CHARTS
A graph is a pictorial representation of data, which
has at least 2 dimensional relationship. Therefore,
a graph has at least two axes, X and Y . X-axis is
usually horizontal while Y-axis is vertical. A graph
may either be a singleline graph or a multiple-
line graph. For ease and enhancing of clarity,
different types of lines and different shades of
Colours can be used for preparing a multiple-line
graph.
A pie chart represents multiple sub-groups of
single variable. A bar diagram depicts two or more
variables.
After studying this chapter, you will be
able to:
• represent data in graphical form
in charts & diagrams through
Excel.
• use accounting data for graphical
representation.
Reprint 2024-25

106
Computerised Accounting System
Figure 4.1 shows different types of graphs and charts which can be
prepared with the help of the commands or standard tools given in
toolbar.
Figure 4.1:  Various types of graph and charts
Using the MS Excel 2007 we can create a basic chart by clicking
the chart type that we want on the Microsoft Office Fluent user interface
Ribbon, as shown in Figure 4.2. Remember these following steps which
are alr eady explained in pr evious chapter.
Figure 4.2: Tools for various types of graphs
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
107
1. On the screen of the computer mouse
click on 
  Start Icon
2. On clicking of Start symbol we will get
Programs option; which will provide us
access to a list of programs installed on
the computer.
3. On selecting MS Excel 2007 program it
will provide a blank workbook with a
Ribbon displayed at the top as shown in Figure 4.2.
4. Click on Insert tab to get tools for chart as shown in Figure 4.3.
We will lear n how to draw graphs, charts and diagrams for the
following worksheet data see Figure 4.4.
Using the following two steps we can create any type of chart /
graph that displays the details that we want.
4.2 BASICS STEPS FOR
GRAPHS/CHARTS/
DIAGRAMS USING
EXCEL
Step - 1
To create a chart in Excel; we will enter
sales related data for each quarter
sales (namely QTR1 to QTR4) of the
year 2007-08 for six different products
manufactured by ABC Manufacturing
Company Ltd. (as given in Figure 4.4)
The row totals (row number 11) gives the quarter wise total sales of
products and the column totals (column number G) gives product wise
total sales. The cell G11 gives over all total sales of the
products for the year are entered in a worksheet.
Step - 2a
In this step we will select to plot the data Product wise
Total sales (see in Figure 4.4 and independently shown
as Step 2a) into a chart by selecting the chart type that
we want to use from the Ribbon. The steps are also
described earlier in section 4.1 (use Insert  tab and
click on Charts group). Let us draw the Bar Chart for
the data of step - 2a.
Step - 2b
To draw a chart/graph for the given data by Excel
the above steps are essential and important. From the
tab on the ribbon we can see that Excel supports many
Figure 4.3  Tools for various types of graphs
Figure 4.4  Quarterly Sales of Product
1
No caption ???
Reprint 2024-25

108
Computerised Accounting System
types of charts to display data in
meaningful ways.
Let us prepare a new chart from the
same worksheet to display total sales for
each quarter. The data in the worksheet is
to be reorganised for the purpose of chart
preparation and as mentioned above,
graph/chart will be prepared in similar two
steps as described above (Figure 4. 5).
Period Total Sales
 Qtr1 25844
 Qtr2 11295
 Qtr3 14744
 Qtr4 21886
 Total 73769
To create a chart
or to change an
existing chart, we
select variety of
chart types (such as
a column chart or pie chart) and their sub-types (such as a stacked
column chart or a pie in 3-D chart) fr om the ribbon. We can also create
a combination of chart by using more than one chart type in any chart.
This could be possible once we understand the elements of the chart
and the formatting of the chart.
4.2.1 ELEMENTS OF A CHART/GRAPH
Figure 4.5
A chart/graph are a pictorial
presentation of data. To understand
and explain the chart/graph we will
learn all basic  elements of the
chart. These chart/graph elements
are given in Figures 4.6 and 4.7.
1. The chart area: The entire chart
including all elements.
2. The plot area : In a 2-D chart,
the area is bounded by the X and Y
axes. In a 3-D chart, the area is
bounded by the three (X, Y and Z)
axes.
Figure 4.6
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
109
3. The data points: Individual values plotted in a chart and represented
by bars, columns, lines, pie or various other shapes are called data
markers. Data markers of the same colour constitute a data series .
The data series are related data points that are plotted in the chart/
graph. Each data series in a chart is shown in a unique colour or
pattern or both. Its identification is given by the legend.  There may be
more than one data series in a chart/graph.
4. The horizontal (category) and vertical (value) axis : The x-axis is
usually the horizontal line which contains categories (independent
values or categories) and y-axis is usually the verticals which contains
data (dependent values).
5. The legend: It is an identifier of a piece of information shown in the
chart/graph. The legends are assigned to the data series or different
categories in a chart (Figure 4.7).
6. A chart and axes titles : Descriptive text for chart title (6-A) and
axis title (6-B) as shown in Figure 4.6.
7. A data label : This provides additional information about a data
marker to identify the details of data point in a data series.
Some of the elements are displayed by default when we prepare the
chart/graph; others can be added as needed. It is also possible to
change the format or display of the chart/graph as desired.
Figure 4.7
4.2.2 FORMATTING OF CHART
4.2.2.1 Formatting the Chart (using design option)
As referred in earlier section 4.2.1 above; in this section we will learn
how the elements of a chart such as plot area, X-axis, Y-axis, data,
Reprint 2024-25

110
Computerised Accounting System
titles, labels, legends and gridline as shown in Figure 4.7 can be
formatted and edited as per the requirement. Click anywhere in the
chart. This will display the Chart Tools , adding the Design, Layout,
and Format tabs (Figure 4.8a).
Using Design  option we can change the look of a chart. In the
Design dialog box, we can click to change chart type, chart layouts
and chart styles. One of the options provide for 2-d chart to swap the
column data to row data and row data to column data. The steps are
as follows:
In a chart (Figure 4.7) click the chart element to change, or do the
following to select the chart element from a list of chart elements:
Figure 4.8 (a)
1. Click anywhere in the chart
(Figure 4.7).  This will display
the Chart Tools , adding the
Design, Layout, and Format
tabs.
2. On the Design  tab, in the
Data group, click the arrow
at the Switch Row/Column
box.
3. This will swap the chart/
graph from X-axis (Product)
to X-axis (Quarterly)(Figure
4.8(b).
4.2.2.2 Changing the format of a selected chart element
In the same chart, click the chart element to change, or do the following
to select the chart element from a list of chart elements:
Figure 4.8 (b)
Figure 4.8 (c)
1. Click anywhere in the chart.  This will display the Chart Tools ,
adding the Design , Layout, and Format
 tabs (Figure 4.8(c).
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
111
2. On the Format tab, in the Current Selection group,
click the arrow next to the Chart Elements box, and
then select the chart element which requires to
format.
3. On the Format tab, in the Current Selection group,
click the 
Format Selection  (Figure 4.8(d)).
4. In the Format <Chart Element>  dialog box, click a
category, and then select the formatting options.
Changing the shape styleChanging the shape styleChanging the shape styleChanging the shape styleChanging the shape style
1. On the Format  tab, in the Shape Styles  group, do one of the
following:
• To see all available shape styles,
click the More  button.
• To apply a pre- defined shape
style, in the shape style box, click
the style that we want.
• To apply a different shape fill, click Shape Fill , and then do one
of the following: (Figure 4.8(e))
/square4To use a different fill Colour, under Theme Colours or Standard
Colours, left click the select Colour .
/square4To remove the Colour from the selected chart element, click
No Fill.
/square4To use a fill Colour that is not available under Theme Colours
or Standard Colours click More Fill Colours . In the Colours
dialog box, specify the Colour that we want to use on the
Standard  or Custom tab, and then click OK.  Custom fill
Colours are added under Recent Colours can also be used.
/square4To fill the shape with a picture, click Picture. In the Insert
Picture dialog box, click the picture to use, and then click
Insert.
/square4To use a gradient ef fect for the selected fill Colour , click
Gradient, and then under V ariations, click the gradient style
to be used. For additional gradient styles, click More
Gradients, and then in the Fill category, click the gradient
options that to use.
/square4To use a texture fill, click Texture , and then click the texture
to use.
Changing the Shape OutlineChanging the Shape OutlineChanging the Shape OutlineChanging the Shape OutlineChanging the Shape Outline
• To apply a different shape outline, click Shape Outline , and then
do one of the following:
/square4To use a dif ferent outline Colour , under Theme Colours  or
Standard Colours, click the Colour to use.
Figure 4.8 (d)
Figure 4.8 (e)
Reprint 2024-25

112
Computerised Accounting System
/square4To remove the outline Colour from the selected chart element,
click No Outline. If the selected element is a line, the line will no
longer be visible on the chart.
/square4To use an outline Colour that is not available under Theme
Colours or Standard Colours  click More Outline Colours . In
the Colours dialog box, specify the Colour that to use on the
Standard or Custom tab, and then click OK. Custom outline
Colours are added under Recent Colours can be used again.
/square4To change the weight (thickness) of a line or border, click Weight
option, and then select the line that we wish to use. For additional
line style or border style options, click on More Lines, and then
click the line style or border style options.
/square4To use br oken line (dash–dash) or bor der, click Dashes, and
then click the dash type to use. For additional dash-type options,
click on 
More Lines, and then click the selected dash.
/square4To add arrows to lines, click Arrows, and then click the arrow
style for borders cannot be used. For additional arrow style or
border style options, click More Arrows, and then click the arrow
setting.
To apply a different shape effect, click Shape Effects , click an
chosen effect, and then select the type of effect.
The shape effects depend on the chart element that we select such
as Pre-set, reflection, and bevel. The shape effects are not available
for all chart elements.
Changing the text forChanging the text forChanging the text forChanging the text forChanging the text for mat matmat matmat
To format the text in chart elements, we can use regular text formatting
options, or we can apply a WordArt format.
1. Click the chart element that contains the text to format.
2. Right-click the text or select the text to format, and then do one of
the following:
/square4Click the for matting options that we want on the Mini toolbar.
/square4On the Home tab, in the Font group, click the formatting buttons
that we want to use.
To use WordArt styles  to format text  use chart elements in the
following steps: (Figure 4.8(f)
1. In a chart, click the chart element that
contains the text to be changed, or do the
following to select the chart element from a
list of chart elements:
2. Click anywhere in the chart.
3. This displays the Chart Tools , adding the
Design, Layout, and Format
 tabs.Figure 4.8 (f)
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
113
4. On the Format tab, in the Current Selection group, click the arrow
next to the Chart Elements  box, and then select the chart element
that to format.
5. On the Format tab, in the WordArt Styles  gr oup, do
one of the following: (Figure 4.8(g))
• To see all available W ordArt styles, click the More
button.
We get options for T ext related formatting
/square4Text Fill
/square4Text Outline
/square4Shadow
/square43-D Format
/square43-D Rotation
/square4Text Box
4.2.2.3 Changing the layout of the chart element
In the same chart, click the chart element to change, or do the following
to select the chart element from a list of chart elements:
1. On the Layout
 tab, we can insert different Clip Arts, Picture, data
labels, grids etc.
2. In the Format <Chart Element>  dialog box, click a category, and
then select the formatting options.
4.2.3  CHANGE THE CHART TYPE
A chart can be changed to another type of
chart to get different look and purpose. For
example, the chart shown in Figure 4.5 can
be changed to Pie a chart (Figure 4.9) by
using the chart tool as given on the Ribbon
interface and in Figure 4.2. The every Pie of
the chart represents the size of total sales in
each quarter proportionately and whole Pie
chart displays sum of all the Pies equals to
100%.
This is the easiest method to change from
column chart or bar chart to Pie chart because
Figure 4.8 (h)
Figure 4.9
Figure 4.8 (g)
Reprint 2024-25

114
Computerised Accounting System
• Only one data series is
used to plot.
• The plotted data values
are positive.
• The data values are not
equal to zero also.
Note that in Excel software Pie chart cannot plot
more than seven catgories. The categories represent
the parts of whole Pie.
Steps for creating a Pie ChartSteps for creating a Pie ChartSteps for creating a Pie ChartSteps for creating a Pie ChartSteps for creating a Pie Chart
1. Enter the data in a worksheet.
2. Select the data from two (consecutive) columns
only.
3. Select the chart type Pie from the ribbon.
4. Under Pie types select 3-D Pie option
5. Click the plot are of Pie chart this displays the
Chart Tools , adding the Design, Layout, and
Format tabs.
6. On the Design tab, in the Chart Layouts group,
select the layout to use.
7. On the Design tab, in the Chart Styles  group,
click the chart style.
8. On the Format tab, in the Shape Styles group,
click Shape Effects , and then click Bevel.
9. Click 3-D Options , and then under 
Bevel, click
the Top and Bottom bevel options.
10.In the Width  and Height  boxes for Top and
Bottom bevel options, type the point size.
11.Under Surface , click Material , and then click
the material option.
12.Click Close.
13.On the Format tab, in the Shape Styles group,
click Shape Effects , and then click Shadow .
14.Under Outer, Inner, or Perspective , click the
shadow option.
15.To rotate the chart for a better perspective, select
the plot area, and then on the Format tab in the
Current Selection  group, click Format
Selection.
Figure 4.9 (a)
Figure 4.9 (b)
Figure 4.9 (c)
Figure 4.9 (d)
Figure 4.9 (e)
Figure 4.9 (f)
Figure 4.9 (g)
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
115
16.Under Angle of first slice , drag the slider to the degree of rotation
that you want, or type a value between 0 (zero) and 360 to specify
the angle of the first slice to appear , and then click Close .
17.Click the chart area of the chart.
18.On the Format
 tab, in the Shape Styles group, click Shape Effects,
and then click Bevel .
19.Under Bevel, select the bevel option.
20.To use theme colors that are different from the default theme that
is applied the workbook, do the following:
a. On the Page Layout tab, in the Themes group, click Themes.
b. Under Built-in, click the theme to use.
4.2.4  RESIZING OF CHART/GRAPH
Resizing of the chart means changing size of the chart as desired. This
option can be used independently for the fonts, title, legends  easily.
The first step is to select the chart by clicking the left button of the
mouse.  Move the cursor on the corners or middle of the borders of the
chart/graph which will provide the figure (the cursor will take the
shape of a two headed arrow). By pressing the left button and drag/
pull as desired to resize the chart as shown by the red circle in the
Figure 4.9a.
4.2.5  2D - 3D CHARTS/GRAPHS
To create graphs we use data which are plotted in two
dimensional (2D) format ( X- axis and Y-axis) as shown
in the Figure 4.7. Where as
• Horizontal dimension is X-axis(contains categories)
• Vertical dimension is Y -axis(contains data)
When we plot the data on 2-D type of graph; the
known value goes on the X-axis (independent) and
derived (dependent variable) value on Y-axis. For
example monthly demand of products (in Rs.); then on
X-axis we will put Month and on Y-axis we will put the
data values for demand.
In the graph sometimes we have to present negative
values also, which can be put on the opposite side of the
axes from origin (Figure 4.10). The intersection of both
the axes (X-axis and Y-axis) is called the origin (O) of the
graph. We can put on the right side of the origin positive
values and on left side of the origin negative values of
data on X-axis. Similarly upper ward side of origin shows
positive values and down ward side of the origin shows
negative values of data Y-axis. For example, if we have
data about monthly profit and loss to be plotted on graph;
Figure 4.10
Figure 4.11(a)
Reprint 2024-25

116
Computerised Accounting System
here profit will be positive data
values and loss will have negative
data values.
2-D types of graphs/charts are
line graphs, bar , ar ea, sur face
column (horizontal or vertical),
multiple line charts, radar chart,
XY (scatter) or bubble chart.
The 2-D Charts typically have
two axes (axis: A line bordering the
chart plot area used as a frame of
reference for measurement. The Y
axis is usually the vertical axis and
contains data. The X-axis is usually
the horizontal axis and contains
categories.) that are used to measure and categorise data: a vertical
axis (also known as derived value axis or Y axis), and a horizontal axis
(also known as category axis or X axis).
Sometimes graphs/charts can be prepared with three dimensional
(3-D) effects. 3-D charts have a third axis, the depth axis (also known
as series axis or Z axis), so that data can be plotted along the depth of
a chart. In this type the third dimension is represented by Z-axis (Figure
4.11(a) & (b)).
For example to represent the volume we require three parameters
height (Y-axis), length (X-axis) and breadth (Z-axis).
Figure 4.11(b)
Product  Lowest  Highest
Toothpaste 2345 12344
Toothbrush 500 5415
Hair Oil 988 3678
Shampoo 2900 3770
Toilet Soap 1122 3861
Bath Soap 952 2344
Total 8807 31412
1. Vertical (derived value) axis –
(Y-axis).
2. Horizontal (category) axis –
(X-axis).
3. Depth (series) axis – (Z-axis).
Sometime we would like to draw
the charts for comparison of
values. Data that is arranged in
columns or rows on a worksheet
can be plotted in a radar chart.
Radar charts do not have
horizontal (category) axes, and similarly pie and doughnut charts do
not have any axes. In Figure 4.12 radar chart is drawn for the
comparison of highest and lowest values of sales of different products.
Radar charts compare the aggregate values of a number of data
series (data series: Related data points that are plotted in a chart.
Each data series in a chart has a unique color or pattern and is
represented in the chart legend. Y ou can plot one or mor e data series
in a chart. Pie charts have only one data series.).
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
117
Similarly data can be arranged in columns
or rows only on a worksheet and can be plotted
in a doughnut chart. Like a pie chart, a doughnut
chart shows the relationship of parts to a whole,
but it can contain more than one.
Doughnut charts (Figure 4.13) are not easy
to read. We may use a stacked column or stacked
bar chart instead.
Doughnut charts have the following chartDoughnut charts have the following chartDoughnut charts have the following chartDoughnut charts have the following chartDoughnut charts have the following chart
subtypes subtypessubtypessubtypessubtypes
Doughnut    Doughnut charts display data in
rings, where each ring represents a data series.
For example, in the previous chart, the inner
ring represents gas tax revenues, and the outer
ring represents property tax revenues.
Doughnut ChartDoughnut ChartDoughnut ChartDoughnut ChartDoughnut Chart
Exploded Doughnut  Much like exploded pie
charts, exploded doughnut charts display the
contribution of each value to a total while
emphasising individual values, but they can
contain more than one data series.
4.3  ADVANTAGES IN USING
GRAPH/CHART
Help to Explore :  Many times we would like to see if there is a
relationship between variables. Suppose, that we wanted to determine
if there is a relationship between: a country’s GNP and the infant
mortality rate, between age and between genders.  It may be quicker
and easier to create a chart immediately to see the possible relationship
of variables to one another , rather than paging thr ough raw data.
Help to Pr esent:  W e want to pr ovide infor mation in as little time
as possible. Graphing plays a key role.  It seems that there is no longer
any time to sit and read a newspaper in order to find out what is going
on.  However , newspapers, such as The Economics T imes and India
Today magazines (which were early users of charting techniques), seem
to understand this phenomena and provide graphs to convey and sum
up ideas that they are making in their articles.
Help to Convince :  The same way that a graph can be used to
present and explore different characteristics of data, it can also be
used to convince.  Graphs have the ability to take large amounts of
information and make them into exhibitions that are easily used to
persuade.
Figure 4.13
Figure 4.12
Reprint 2024-25

118
Computerised Accounting System
SummarySummarySummarySummarySummary
• A graph  is a pictorial representation of data. Graphs are usually
2-dimensional. Sometimes 3-dimensional graphs are also used.
• A graph may be either a singleline graph or a multi-line graph . Multi-line
in a graph are distinguished either by using different shapes of line or
different shapes and colors.
• Other popular pictorial representations include Pie Chart  and Bar Chart .
Pie charts depict relative share of different elements. Bar charts are used
to depict the comparison of absolute values of data (e.g. sales, production,
etc.) at discrete points (e.g. time intervals, products, etc.).
• MS-Excel 2007 (or simply Excel) provides a convenient facility to draw graphs
and charts. The nomenclature used in Excel for charts (charts include
graphs) is as follows:
a. The Chart Area,
b. The Plot Area covering the plot of values in the selected type of chart,
c. The Data Points,
d. The Horizontal (Base V alues, e.g. category) and V ertical (Derived V alues)
Axes,
e. The Legend to specify distinguishing criteria in case of multiple lines,
pies, bars, etc.
f. Chart and Axes T itles
g. Data Labels
• Every elements of a chart – such as plot area, X-axis, Y-axis, data, titles,
labels, legends, and gridlines – can be formatted using the Design, Layout
and Format dialog box in Excel.
• Chart’s size can also be changed as per requirements.
• For multiple visualisations of the same data through different typs of charts,
we can change the chart type (say, from line graph to barchart, or bar
chart to pie chart, etc) wherever required for better presentation as per the
nature of data.
• Graphs and charts help in easy visualisation of any trends present in data.
In highly random data such as stock prices, textual description may not be
easily possible to explain the price or other fluctuations, but graphs and
charts overcome this constraint as they can be comprehended more easily
by human beings.
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
119
Following are the steps prepare a chart :
Step – 1: Enter data in a worksheet with proper column and row titles.
Step – 2: Create a basic chart using the pattern from the panel available on
top of worksheet in Chart groups’ option.
Step – 3: Change the layout or style of chart.
Apply a predefined chart layout.
Apply a predefined chart style.
Change the layout of chart elements.
Change the format of chart elements.
Step – 4: Add or remove titles or data labels.
Add (Remove) a chart title.
Add (Remove) axis titles.
Link a title to a worksheet cell.
Add (Remove) data labels.
Step – 5: Show or hide a legend.
Step – 6: Display or hide chart axes or gridlines.
Display (hide) primary axes
Display (hide) secondary axes
Display (hide) gridlines
Step – 7: Move (resize) a chart
Step – 8: Save a chart
Reprint 2024-25

120
Computerised Accounting System
EXERCISE
Q1. MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS
1. To change the location of a chart, right-click the chart and select:
a. Chart Type.
b. Source Data.
c. Chart Options.
d. Move here.
2. The Ribbon allows us to:
a. Create either an embedded chart or a chart sheet chart:
b. Create only an embedded chart.
c. Create only a chart sheet chart.
d. Change the data values used to create the chart.
3. Once we have created a chart we may change _____:
a. the formatting for text like titles and data labels.
b. only by going back through the ribbon.
c. everything about the chart.
d. the data series patterns only.
4. In Excel the chart tools provides three different options ______, ________ and
_______ for formatting:
a. Layout, Format, Data Marker.
b. Design, Layout, Format.
c. Chart Layouts, Chart Style, Label.
d. Format, Layout, Label.
5. Pie chart don’t have more than ________ categories:
a. Ten.
b. Twenty Five.
c. Seven.
d. Three.
6. Column charts are useful for ____________________:
a. Showing data changes over a period of time.
b. Illustrating comparisons among items.
c. Both a and b.
d. None of the above.
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
121
7. Doughnut charts:
a. Contains more than one data series.
b. Comparable with Pie chart.
c. Both a and b.
d. None of the above.
8. The 2D graph using _______ , _________ axes and in 3D graph ______ axis is
also used.
a. Category, value, vertical.
b. Horizontal, vertical, depth.
c. Category, value, series.
d. b and c both.
9. Excel automatically redraws the chart ___________:
a. If any change is made in data.
b. If any change is made in the range data.
c. a and b both.
d. None of the above.
10. Legend can be repositioned on the chart:
a. anywhere.
b. on right side only.
c. on the bottom of X-axis.
d. on the corner only.
11. Which chart element details the data values and categories below the chart?
a. Data point.
b. Data labels.
c. Data marker.
d. Data table.
12. From what command tab is the font size for an axis in a chart changed?
a. Home.
b. Insert.
c. Format.
d. Design.
Reprint 2024-25

122
Computerised Accounting System
13. Which of these purposes does not pertain to charts?
a. Identifying trends.
b. Selecting values.
c. Recognising patterns.
d. Making comparisons.
14. What do you see if you move over the mouse over a chart object?
a. KeyTip.
b. ScreenTip.
c. ChartTip.
d. ChartKey.
15. Which group on the Chart Tools Format tab shows the name of the selected
element?
a. Arrange Objects.
b. Chart Objects.
c. Choose Selection.
d. Current Selection.
Q2. ANSWER THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
1. Define char
ts, graphs and how they are useful in business decisions?
2. Write down the usage and purpose of column chart, pie chart and line chart.
3. Describe about data series, legend, and data labels??
4. Describe use of Excel for preparation of chart.
5. Differentiate between pie charts, line charts and column charts respectively?
6. Described the steps to move, resizing and reposition a chart.
7. What does percentage in chart represent and how it being calculated by the
software?
8. What are the differences between
a. Area, XY chart and doughnut
b. 2-D Charts  and 3-D Charts
9. What is pie chart and what are percentage values means in pie chart?
10. Different types of charts which can be prepared using Excel?
Reprint 2024-25

Graphs and Charts for Business Data
123
Q3. SKILL REVIEW
A. Create a trend chart after filling data in to the worksheet.
(Population of India/State in Millions to be enter)
Year Male(1) Female (2) Total(3)
Literate Illiterate Literate  Illiterate  Literate   Illiterate
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
Note: Total Literate  = Values of Male Literate  + Values of Female Literate
Total Illiterate = Values of Male Illiterate + Values of Female Illiterate
B. Create a Pie chart to compare data from above table for Total (column number
3).
C. Draw a Trend charts for each male, female and totals separately.
D. Draw a Column Chart for the above data for each (male, female and total)
separately for Literate and Illiterate.
E. Prepare a Pie chart and Column chart for the 10 different plots areas 5, 7, 8, 9,
8, 10, 4, 6, 7 and 3 hectares respectively.
F. Draw a Pie chart for the following data on vehicles registered in the RTO
department during 2007-08 in your city.
Vehicle Bus Trucks Auto Rixa Cars Two    Heavy
Type Wheelers Vehicles
Number of 575 5889 12345 9765 23456 65
Vehicles
G. Draw a Column chart for the following data.
Marks 0-20 21-40 41-60 61-80 81-100 Total
Number
of 113
180 350 232 125 1000
Students
Reprint 2024-25

124
Computerised Accounting System
   ANSWERS
1. d 2. d 3. a 4. b 5. c 6. c
7. c 8. c 9. c 10. a 11. b 12. a
13. b 14. c 15. d
Reprint 2024-25

