SPREADSHEET
Introduction
After studying this chapter you will be
able to understand:
• Concept of  Spreadsheet and its
features.
• How to use a Spreadsheet.
2
Learning Objectives
A spreadsheet  is a configuration of rows and
columns. Rows are horizontal vectors while
columns are vertical vectors. A spreadsheet is also
known as a worksheet. It is used to record,
calculate and compare numerical or financial data.
Each value can either be an independent (i.e. basic)
value or it may be derived on the basis of values of
other variables. The derived value is the outcome
of an arithmetic expression and/or a function
(i.e. a formula).
Spreadsheet application (sometimes referred to
simply as spreadsheet) is a computer program that
allows us to add (i.e. enter) and pr ocess data. W e
shall understand spreadsheet with the help of
MS-Excel  (or simply, Excel), which is one of the
Microsoft Office Suite of software.
The current version of Excel is Excel 2007 and
has a completely redesigned user interface. The
Excel 2007 is now designed with a series of
horizontal tabs known as “Ribbon” (Figure 2.1).
These tool bars are changed using tabs at the top.
This layout is very easy to use than the previous
Figure 2.1
Reprint 2024-25

18
Computerised Accounting System
versions of Excel.  On clicking with left button of mouse at
“Office Button”
 ; we will be able to open an old workbook or create
a new one or can save the workbook or can print which were earlier
available in previous version of Excel in File menu.
2.1 BASIC CONCEPTS OF SPREADSHEET
A file in Excel is known as a “W orkbook”. A workbook is a collection of
a number of “Worksheets” (Figure 2.2). By default, thr ee sheets, namely
Sheet 1, Sheet 2, and Sheet 3 are available to users. At a time, only
one worksheet can be made as “Active W orksheet” and that worksheet
is available to a user for carrying out operations. An active worksheet’s
name will be shown in bold letters in the “Sheet Tab” at the bottom left
of the screen. Additional sheets can be added, if required, by clicking
on the icon (which 
 works as Insert  ! W  ! W ! W ! W ! W orksheet orksheetorksheet orksheetorksheet ).
The Sheet names can be
changed, if required, by right-
clicking the mouse over the Sheet1
or Sheet 2 or Sheet 3 after selecting
and pointing it on the sheet name
(which is to be changed) and selec-
ting “Rename” option.
Box 2.1 Box 2.1Box 2.1 Box 2.1Box 2.1
Basic and Derived VBasic and Derived VBasic and Derived VBasic and Derived VBasic and Derived V alues aluesalues aluesalues
If quantity (Q) of an item is
purchased at a price (P), the value
of that item (V) is derived as
follows:
V = Q × P
Here, the values P and Q are
Basic V alues.  While V is the
Derived V alue as it is obtained
by multiplying Q with P . The
expression (Q×P) is called as
arithmetic expression . Addi-
tional examples of arithmetic
expressions are given later in this
chapter.
Note: In general, an arithmetic
expression  may contain one or
more functions.
Figure 2.2
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
19
Figure 2.3
Rows RowsRowsRowsRows are numbered numerically
from top to bottom while Columns
ColumnsColumns ColumnsColumns
are referred by alpha characters
from left to right. In Excel 2007,
there are 65536 Rows RowsRows RowsRows  which are
numbered as 1, 2, 3, … 65,536. These
numbers are shown on the left most
portion of the worksheet. Columns ColumnsColumns ColumnsColumns
(total 256 in Excel) are identified
by letters, such as A, B, C,.. AA…
IV, and are shown on the horizontal
box just above Row 1. Thus, there
are 65,536 x 256 = 1,65,00,000,
approximately cells, which is indeed a huge work area, sufficient for
all application requirements (Figure 2.3) in one sheet.
In a spreadsheet, a value or function or an arithmetic expression is
recorded in a cell cellcell cellcell . The intersection of a row rowrow rowrow and a column columncolumn columncolumn  is called a
cell. cell. cell. cell. cell.  A cell cellcell cellcell  is identified by a combination of a letter and a number
corresponding to a particular location within the spreadsheet. For
example, the first cell of a worksheet is identified as A1 as it shown in
Figure 2.2 at row 1 and column (A). When we start Excel, the pointer
(cursor) points to the first cell, i.e. A1, and this cell is called the Active ActiveActive ActiveActive
Cell CellCell CellCell . We can move ar ound a worksheet thr ough four arr ow keys (i.e.
left, right, up, down as shown in Figure 2.4). For example, the cell
having address as G8 correspond to 8th row under G column. Each
cell thus has a unique identification called as cell addresscell addresscell addresscell addresscell address .
Cell Reference —  — —  — —  A cell reference identifies the location of a cell or
group of cells in the spreadsheet also referred as a cell address.  Cell
refer ences ar e used in for mulas, functions, charts, other Excel
commands and also refer to a group or range of cells. Ranges RangesRanges RangesRanges  are
identified by the cell references of the cells in the upper left (cell A1)
and lower right (cell E2) corners in Figure 2.3. The ranges are identified
using colon (:) e.g. A1: E2 which tells Excel to include all the cells
between these start and end points. By default cell reference is
relative; which means that as a for mula or function is copied and
pasted to other cells, the cell r eferences in the for mula or function
change to reflect the new location. The other cell reference is absolute
cell reference which consists of the column letter and row number
surrounded by dollar ($) signs e.g. $C$4. An absolute cell reference is
used when we want a cell reference to stay fixed on specific cell,
which means that when a formula or function is copied and pasted to
other cells, the cell references in the formula or function do not change.
A mixed reference  is also a cell reference that holds either row or
column constant when the for mula or function is copied to another
location e.g., $C4 or C$4.
Reprint 2024-25

20
Computerised Accounting System
The mouse is used for all the operations required
and for navigation in worksheet (or workbook) except
data entry; but some of the important operations and
common navigations can be performed by using key
strokes (as given below). It is better to understand
and know all the keys of keyboard and key strokes.
Pressing a key is called key stroke but to fulfill one
command for operation in the worksheet some time
we require pressing two keys together to get one key
stroke (Figure 2.4)
MovementMovementMovementMovementMovement Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)
One cell down Down arrow key (
) or Enter EnterEnterEnterEnter  key
One cell up Up arrow key ( )
One cell left Left arrow key ( )
One cell right Right arrow key ( ) or Tab TabTabTabTab key
The other navigational and operational strokes are used for faster
cursor movement  than one cell at a time with cluster of filled cells.
Cluster of filled cells implies a set of consecutive cells in a row or in a
column having some data.
Figure 2.4
The data that is entered in a cell may be either numeric or alpha-
numeric or a date. As a data is typed in a cell, Excel is able to make
out its type (i.e. numeric or alpha-numeric or date) depending on the
nature of value typed in a cell.
MovementMovementMovementMovementMovement Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)Key Stroke (Press key)
Top of Worksheet (cell A1) CTRL CTRLCTRLCTRLCTRL  + HOME
HOMEHOME HOMEHOME  (i.e. Keep CTRL CTRLCTRL CTRLCTRL  key
pressed and then press HOME HOMEHOME HOMEHOME  key
The cell  at the intersection of the CTRL CTRLCTRL CTRLCTRL  + END ENDEND ENDEND keys
last row and last column containing data
Moving consecutively to the first and the last CTRL CTRLCTRL CTRLCTRL  + Right arrow key (
) or
filled cells of clusters of filled cells in a row by else END ENDENDENDEND + Right arrow key ( )
successive pressing of CTRL CTRLCTRLCTRLCTRL  + Right arrow
key ( ) or else END ENDENDENDEND + Right arrow key ( )
Moving consecutively to the first and the last CTRL CTRLCTRLCTRLCTRL  + Down arrow key ( ) or
filled cells of a cluster of filled cells in a column else END ENDENDENDEND + Down arrow key ( )
by successive pressing of CTRL CTRLCTRLCTRLCTRL  + Down arrow
key ( ) or else END ENDENDENDEND + Down arrow key ( )
Beginning of the Row HOME HOMEHOMEHOMEHOME  key
Beginning of the Column
Navigating In (i.e. Moving arNavigating In (i.e. Moving arNavigating In (i.e. Moving arNavigating In (i.e. Moving arNavigating In (i.e. Moving ar ound) The Wound) The Wound) The Wound) The Wound) The W orksheet orksheetorksheetorksheetorksheet
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
21
If the value is entered as 306, its type is automatically taken as Numeric;
if the value is entered as Asset, its type will be taken as alpha-numeric;
while if the value is entered as 12/07/08, its type is taken as Date.
(refer figure 2.5)
The first step required to use Excel
for a specific application is to decide
what values will be entered in which
cells and also the cells which will be
used for entering the relationships.
Once we have decided about the cells
which are to be used for the
relationships; the formulas (arithmetic
expressions) and data can be entered.
(See Box 2.1 at page18)
V VV VValues aluesaluesaluesalues
A value can be entered from the computer keyboard by directly typing
into the cell itself. Alter natively, a value can be based on a for mula
(derived), which might perform a calculation, display the current date or
time, or retrieve external data such as a stock quote or a database value.
The value rulevalue rulevalue rulevalue rulevalue rule  according to computer scientist Alan Kay
Alan KayAlan Kay Alan KayAlan Kay  implies in
spreadsheet. It states that a cell’s value r elies solely on the for mula
that user has typed into the cell. The for mula may rely on the value of
other cells, but those cells are likewise restricted to user-entered data
or formulas. There are no ‘side ef ‘side ef‘side ef ‘side ef‘side ef fects’ fects’fects’ fects’fects’  to calculating a for mula: the
only output is to display the calculated result inside its occupying cell.
There is no natural mechanism for permanently modifying the contents
of a cell unless the user manually modifies the cell’s contents. Sometime
it is called a limited for m of first-order functional programming.
A simple example of a spreadsheet application (Figure 2.6) is to
calculate compound interest and maturity amount to be paid on fixed
deposit. The first step (i.e. the Planning Step) is to define six cells with
column headings:
• Principal Amount (PA in column B)
• Rate of Interest (r in column C)
• Period in years (NY)
• Period of Compounding (CP in column D)
• Compound Interest (CI in column F)
• Maturity Amount (MA in column E)
The formula for Maturity Amount (MA) and
Compound Interest (CI) computations
considering yearly compounding of interest are
as follows:
Figure 2.5
Figure 2.6
Reprint 2024-25

22
Computerised Accounting System
MA = PA * (1 + R / (100 * CP)) ^ (R * CP)
CI= MA – PA
Now, we can decide the layout of the worksheet for (compound)
interest calculation as shown in Figure 2.6.
It may be observed that the basic values are entered in cells (as in
figure 2.6 the cells are B4, C4 and D4); the derived values (as in Figure
2.6 the cells are E4 and F4) are automatically computed (using above
formula) and shown in for forforforfor mula barmula barmula barmula barmula bar . In case any basic values ar e
modified, the derived values as a result are revised accordingly. This
feature of Spreadsheets enables us to study various what-if scenarioswhat-if scenarioswhat-if scenarioswhat-if scenarioswhat-if scenarios .
A what-if scenariowhat-if scenariowhat-if scenariowhat-if scenariowhat-if scenario  is used to generate a number of alter natives to
examine the cause (if) and effect (what). Thus, it helps in analysing the
impact of changes due to variations in one or more input values. Taking
the above example, if all the other values are kept same, one can see
how different rates of interest and different periods of compounding
would affect the Compound Interest and the Maturity Amount to be
received.
Before proceeding further for the above example we have to
understand some of the basic terminologies and features of the
spreadsheet such as:
2.1.1 LABELS
A text or especial character will be treated as labels for rows or columns
or descriptive information. Labels cannot be treated mathematically-
multiplied, subtracted, etc. Labels include any cell contents beginning
with A-Z e.g., in the above Figure 2.6  Principal Amount , Rate of
Interest, Maturity amount
, etc. will be taken as labels.
2.1.2 FORMULAS
The formula means a mathematical calculation on a set of cells. Formulas
must start with an = sign (equal to sign), e.g. in the Figure 2.7 the cell
E3 will have formula = D1+E1/F1*G1 which gives value 16.
When a cell contains a formula, it often contains referencesreferencesreferencesreferencesreferences  to
other cells. Such a cell referencecell referencecell referencecell referencecell reference  is a type of variable. Its value is the
value of the referenced cell or some derivation of it. If that cell in turn
references other cells, the value depends on the values of those.
By convention, the left hand side of equal
to sign in a formula is normally considered
is calculated and displayed in cell E3.
A formula identifies the calculation
needed to place the result in the cell it is
contained within. A cell E3 containing a
formula, therefore it has two display
Figure 2.7
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
23
components; the formula itself and the resulting value. The formula is
shown only when the cell is selected by “clicking” the mouse over a
particular cell; otherwise it contains the result of the calculation (in
this case 16).
The arithmetic operations and complex nested conditional (what- (what-(what-(what-(what-
if scenario)if scenario)if scenario)if scenario)if scenario)  operations can be performed by spreadsheets which follow
order of
order oforder of order oforder of  mathematical (expression) operations rulesmathematical (expression) operations rulesmathematical (expression) operations rulesmathematical (expression) operations rulesmathematical (expression) operations rules .
A spreadsheet without any formulas is a collection of data which
are arranged in rows and columns (a database) like a calendar, timetable
or simple list, etc. There is a Formula tab on Excel ribbon (Figure
2.8(a) which contains four sections, functions library, defined names,
formula auditing and calculation.
2.1.3 FUNCTIONS
A function is a special key word which can be entered into a cell in
order to perform and process the data which is appended within
brackets.
Figure 2.8(a)
Order of mathematical operations (expressions)
Computer math uses the rules of Algebra..... Any operation(s) contained in brackets
will be carried out first followed by any exponents.
After that, Excel considers division or multiplication operations to be of equal
importance, and carries out these operations in the order they occur left to right
in the equation.
The same goes for the next two operations – addition and subtraction. They are
considered equal in the order of operations. Whichever one appears first in an
equation, either addition or subtraction is the operation carried out first.
Three easy ways to remember the order of operations is to use the acronym:
GEMS PEMDAS BEMDAS
( ) Grouping Please - ( )parenthesis ( ) Brackets
^ Exponents Excuse - ^ exponents ^ Exponents
* Multiplication : My - * multiply * Multiplication
/ or Division : Dear - / divide / Division
- Subtraction : Aunt - + add + Addition
+ or Addition : Sally -
- subtract - Subtraction
Reprint 2024-25

24
Computerised Accounting System
There is a function button on the formula toolbar ( fff ffx) (figure 2.8(b);
when we click with the mouse on it; a function offers assistance and
useful prompts into a spreadsheet cell. Alternatively we can enter the
function dir ectly into the for mula bar . A function involves four main
issues:
• Name of the function
• The purpose of the function
• The function needs what
argument(s) in order to
carry its assignment.
• The result of the function .
A function is a built in set of formulas which starts with an =
“equal to sign” such as = FunctionName(Data). The data (or argument
in proper terminology) includes a range of cells.
SUM (), A VERAGE () and COUNT () ar e common functions and
relatively easy to understand. They each apply to a range of cells
containing numbers (or blank but not text) and return either the
arithmetic total of the numbers, the average mean value or the quantity
of values in the range.
For Example: The SUM or AutoSum (
∑) function is the most basic
and one of the common user functions. It is used to get the addition of
various numbers or the contents of various cells. On the ribbon (Figure
2.9(a)) the AutoSum (
∑ ) button can be use directly for summation of
values from cells. Once we click the AutoSum (∑ ) at cell H1, the function
adds the contents of cell range D1 to G1 and displays the answer that
we want to get the sum of. If we want answer in the cell G5 (Figure
2.9(b) use the mouse to click in the cell G5 and click AutoSum button
then from keyboard type range of the cells D1:G1; the answer 17 will
appear in cell G5; or we can write directly the complete function =
SUM (D1: G1) appears in the formula bar above the worksheet. The
AutoSum function also includes other series based functions such as
AVERAGE, MIN, MAX and COUNT .
Figure 2.8(b)
Figure 2.9(a) Figure 2.9(b)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
25
There are twelve different categories of functions available in Excel
2007 displayed on the ribbon (Figure 2.8) which are classified as per
the usage e.g. The Financial, Date and T ime, Lookup and Refer ences,
Database, Text and Logical functions are useful in Computerised
Accountancy and will be explained later subsequently.
Naming Ranges – IF Functions – Nested IF Functions
As mentioned earlier , we will now lear n the arithmetic operations and
complex nested conditional  (what-if scenario)(what-if scenario)(what-if scenario)(what-if scenario)(what-if scenario)  using name ranges,
absolute cell references and mixed references in following sections.
Naming Cells and Ranges
Naming ranges in Excel will save time for
writing complex formulas.  The name can be
used in place of cell range whenever reference
it e.g. in D3 we have = SUM ( B1:F1 )
(Figure 2.10)
The cell referenced in the function B1:F1
can be replaced with a descriptive name
say NumbersNumbersNumbersNumbersNumbers  (name range) which is
easier to remember and in D3 it will be
= SUM ( Numbers)
Behind the Numbers Numbers Numbers Numbers Numbers Excel is hiding cell references, we will see how
it works now.
The steps are for defining Name Ranges are as
follows:
1. Select the cell(s) which are to be named
(such as B1:F1 in Figure 2.10(a)).
2. Click on the ribbon on formula tab.
3. Select Define Name (Figure 2.10(b) option
on the ribbon and click it.
4. This will provide a dialogue box will be
opened as shown in Figure 2.10(c) to click
Define Name (another option Apply Names is for previously created
Range Names to select) (Figure 2.10(d)).
Figure 2.10
Figure 2.10(a)
Figure 2.10(b) Figure 2.10(c)
Reprint 2024-25

26
Computerised Accounting System
5. This will display a dialogue box as New
Name shown in Figure 2.10(d). It will
provide a window “Name”  in which type
“Numbers”   which will represent cell
ranges $B$1:$F$1  as shown in be
“Refers to” window.
6. Click OK on the New Name dialogue box
which returns to the spreadsheet. Notice
that the Name Box having our heading
“Numbers”.
7.  To apply this name in cell D3 for summation from
B1:F1 click on Apply Name and a dialogue box will
be opened  then click on a Name Range – Numbers
(Figure 10(e)). The D3 will be having =SUM (Numbers)
And will display the result (Figure 10(f)). The named
range can be used with other Functions such as
AVERAGE (), SUMIF () etc.
Now we will use a summation of numbers using condition
in the cell D3. Type the formula = SUMIF (Numbers,”<6)
and the answer will be 9 (for the Numbers less than 6 in
the named range B1:F1) (Figure 2.10(f)).
Let us understand with the help of another
example in which we will be using  two Named Ranges
(Figure 2.11) namely Monthly_Totals for cells B2:B5
Figure 2.10(d)
Figure 2.10(f)
Figure 2.10(e)
Figure 2.10(g)
Figure 2.11
and Monthly_Tax for cells C2:C5
respectively created as described above.
The cell B6 will have value 1158
by using function as =SUM
(Monthly_Totals).
Similarly in Figure 2.11(a) if we
use Autosum Function (
∑ ) from the
formula tab of the ribbon at the cell
C6; the function will include the
Named Ranges as an argument and
gives the result 238.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
27
We will now use these two Named
Ranges to calculate the Balance (in cell
B7) after using the formula tax from
monthly totals. Let us give
Total_of_Month is the Named Range for
cell B6 and similarly, the Total_of_Tax
is the Named Range for cell C6.  With these
two Named Ranges; the cell B7 will have
the difference of these two amounts and
will be written (Figure 2.11(b))  as
= Total_of_Month – Total_of_Tax  .
To prevent its recalculation and
maintain the present calculated value as
shown in the cells B6, C6 and B7
respectively (Figure 2.11(b) we can freeze
the formula using Paste Special
command. The following steps are
required:
1. Select the cell (s) that contains the
formula e.g. B6:C6, B7 (Figure 2.11(b)
2. Click on Home Tab and select Copy
symbol (Figure 2.11(c)) to click, this
will copy the values and formulas of
the cells (Figure 2.11(d)).
3. Click on Paste tab and select Paste
Special.
4. In the Paste Special box (Figure 2.11
(d)), under paste select the radio
button next to Values and click OK.
This will permanently remove the
formula from the workbook.
In continuation to our need of what-if-
scenario  now we will learn about an
important logical function IF Function .
This function can be evoked from formula
tab on the ribbon. This function returns
one value if a specified condition evaluated
to TRUE and another value if it evaluates
to FALSE.  W e will lear n more about the
usage of functions in the business
applications subsequently; there are a
large selection of if functions available.
An IF function has the  following format:
IF (logical_test, value_if_ture,
value_if_false) where
Figure 2.11(a)
Figure 2.11(b)
Figure 2.11(c)
Figure 2.11(d)
Reprint 2024-25

28
Computerised Accounting System
logical_test :  the value or expression that is determined to be true or
false; this r equires the usage of a logical operator . A logical operator is
one used to perform a comparison between two values and produce a
result of true or false (there is no middle result: something is not half
true or half false or “Don’t Know”; either it is true or it is false).  For
example, A1 < 20 could be used as a logical test, where symbol “<“ is a
logical operator “less than”. (There are many more logical operators
such as =, <=, <>, >, >= etc.)
value_if_true
 :  The value returned if the test is determined to be true.
This value can be a value, text, or expression, formula, etc. or it can be
return the value of another cell.
value_if_false : The value returned, if the test is determined to be
false. This value can be a value, text, or expression, formula, etc. or it
can return the value of another cell.
e.g. i. = IF( A1 < 20, “Y es”, “No”)  this function will r eturn Yes if cell
A1 < 20 and o for anything else.
ii. = IF (C2 > B2, (C2+D2)/2, (B2+D2)/2) this function will compare
both cell C2 > B2 and will calculate and return (C2+D2)/2 if it
is true else it will calculate and return (B2+D2)/2.
Example : Let us calculate the amount of saving (Cell address ”value”) on
the basis of percentage value (Cell address “saving”) shown in figure 2.12(a)
Creating IF function using the Formula Tab and dialogue box.
1. Select the cell F4 (Figure 2.12(a) where the function is to be introduce
2. Click at the Formula tab on the ribbon and click logical option.
3. Select IF function which will provide
Function Arguments dialogue box
(Figure 2.12(b).
4. Type an appropriate condition in the
logical_test box ( e.g.  E4 > 10000 )
5. In the value_if_true  box type the
require value (e.g. 10%) if the logical
test condition is met.
6. In the value_if_false  box type the
value (e.g. 5%) if the logical test
condition is NOT met.
7. Click OK, the answer for the
condition will be displayed (in cell
F4 it will be 5%). Copy the function
from F4 to all other cells F5:F11.
In the Formula Box the function will be displayed as
=IF (F4>10000, 10%, 5%)
This is simple use of IF function.  The nested IFs can be used to
look for several conditions and to look at different types of functions.
Figure 2.12(a)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
29
e.g. = IF (AVERAGE (A2:A6) > 10, SUM
(B2:B6), 0)
This function will be able to look at
the average of cells A2 to A6 and if the
average is higher than 10 it will sum
the value of the cells B2 to B6, if the
average is equal to or less than 10 it
will return to 0.
In some cases, we need to check
more than one condition. In other
words, check the first condition; if that
condition is false, check another
condition.  If a nested function is used as an argument it must return
the same type of value that the argument uses. For example, if the
argument r eturns a TRUE or FALSE value, then the nested function
must r eturn a TRUE or FALSE otherwise MS Excel will display an
error message #Value! in the cell.
This way we can check as many conditions as we need to. The
truthfulness of each condition would lead to its own statement. If none
of the conditions is true, then it executes the last statement. To
implement this scenario include an IF() function inside of another .
Such as :
= IF (logical_test, value_if_true, value_if_false) simple if statement.
Let us substitute other IFs
IF (logical_test,  IF (logical_test,  IF (logical_test, value_if_true,
value_if_false),  value_if_false),  value_if_false)
e.g.  Suppose E2 cell contains marks of a test and cell F2 will have
result based on following nested IF () condition.
= IF (E2<96,  
IF (E2<91, IF (E2<55,”Fail”,”C Grade”),  “B Grade”),
“A Grade ”)
2.1.4 OTHER USEFUL FUNCTIONS
In business applications the input
of data usually contains dates (date
of invoice preparation, date of
payment, payment received date, or
due date etc.), rate of interest, tax
percentage and output information
may require age calculation,
duration, delays in payment,
accumulated interest, depreciation,
future value, net present value, etc.
The MS Excel provides library of
such functions in which input data
Figure 2.12(b)
Figure 2.13
Reprint 2024-25

30
Computerised Accounting System
can be worked as arguments and result available from the function
will be output information. On the ribbon of MS Excel, the formula tab
contains categorised function libraries (Figure 2.13).
a. Date and T ime Function.
b. Mathematical Function.
c. Text Manipulation function.
d. Logical Function (other than IF).
e. Lookup and Reference Function.
f. Financial Function.
The complete details of each function from a
range of above categories including examples are
available through Help (?)  on the Ribbon. The
quickest way to get help on a function whose name
(e.g. SUMIF) when we entered on formula bar
followed by equal to sign then double-click the
function’s name that appears in the strip (as shown in the figure 2.14).
We will lear n some of the useful function with the help of examples.
2.1.4.1  Date and Time Function
1. TODAY () is the function for today’s date in the blank worksheet.
TODAY – Retur ns the serial number of the curr ent date. The serial
number is the date-time  code used by Excel for date and time
calculations. T imes ar e r epresented as fractions of a day. By default
January 1, 1900 is serial number 1. Thus, January 1, 2009 is serial
number 39814 (because it is 39814 days after January 1, 1900).
2. NOW ()  is similar function but it includes the current time also
(Figure 2.15).
3. DAY(serial_number) function returns the day of a date as an integer
ranging from1 to 31. For example, if A5 = 16-Apr -2009 then = DAY (A2)
will be 16. Similarly, two other functions MONTH(serial_number)
returns month of a date as an integer ranging from 1 (January) to 12
(December) (Figure 2.16) and YEAR(serial_number ) returns the year
corresponding to a date as an integer ranging from 1900 – 9999.
4. DA TEVALUE (date_text)  converts a date in the for m of text to a
serial number e.g.  =DA TEVALUE(“16-04-2009”)  will r eturn a value
39919.
Figure 2.14
Figure 2.15 Figure 2.16
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
31
Example: To find out the age of an employee
as on today is a very simple mathematical
calculation in the spreadsheet, e.g. the age
of a person on 16-Apr -2009 whose Date of
Birth is 16-Apr -1980 can be calculated as
per Figure 2.17. The difference of two dates
(in D3) is divided by 365.25 to convert days
into years (considered the fractional value
for leap years).
2.1.4.2  Mathematical Function
In business applications some of the
Mathematical Functions are very useful,
such as:
1. SUMIF  is the function which adds the cells as per given specified
criteria the syntax of this is as follows:
SUMIF ( range, criteria, sum_range) where
Range it is the range of cells to evaluate.
Criteria it is the criteria in the form of a
number, expression, or text that defines which
cells will be added, e.g. criteria can be
expressed 1500, “1500”, “>1500” or “Books”.
Sum_range  are the actual cells to sum.
e.g. Ther e ar e sum Asset V alues (D2:D5)
and related to each asset values there
are deprecation values (E2:E5). Using
SUMIF function we have to calculate the
sum of depr eciation for those Asset V alues which ar e mor e than 1,
70,000/-.
The function is written in the cell E7 like =SUMIF (D2:E5,”>150000,
E2:E5) which gives result 63,000/- (Figure 2.18)
2. ROUND is the function to rounds a number to specified number of
digits. The syntax of this function is as follows:
ROUND ( number, num_digits) wher e
Number Is the number to round (preferably
fractional number)
Num_digits specifies the number of digits to
round the Number . Ther e may be some
different situations for Num_digits as follows:
a. If Num_digits is greater than 0 (zero),
then number is rounded to the specified
number of decimal places.
b. If Num_digits is 0, then number is
rounded to the near est integer.
Figure 2.17
Figure 2.18
Figure 2.19
Reprint 2024-25

32
Computerised Accounting System
c. If Num_digits is less than 0, then number is rounded to the left of
the decimal point.
Exa ExaExaExaExample
mplemple mplemple  - refer Figure 2.19
i. to round the number 21.5 by 1 digit ( result is 2.2)
ii. to round the number 2.149 by 1 digit ( result is 2.1)
iii. to round the number  -1.475 by 2 digits ( result is -1.48)
vi. to round the number 21.5 by -1 digit ( result is 20.0)
To round a number to the nearest whole number because decimal
values are not significant or round a number to multiples of 10 to
simplify an approximation of amounts. There are several ways to round
a number other than ROUND are:
ROUNDUP ( number, num_digits) which r ounds a number up, away
from 0 (zero) e.g.
= ROUNDUP (3.2, 0) Rounds 3.2 up to zero decimal
places and the value is 4.
= ROUNDUP (76.9, 0) Rounds 76.9 up to zero decimal
places and value is 77.
= ROUNDUP (3.14159, 3) Rounds 3.14159 up to three
decimal places; value 3.142.
= ROUNDUP (-3.14159, 1) Rounds -3.14159 up to one
decimal place; value -3.2.
= ROUNDUP (31415.92654,-2) Rounds 31415.92654 up to 2
decimal places to the left of the
decimal; value 31500.
ROUNDDOWN (number, num_digits)  which r ounds a number down,
toward zero.
= ROUNDDOWN (3.2, 0) Rounds 3.2 down to zero decimal
places; value 3.
= ROUNDDOWN (76.9, 0) Rounds 76.9 down to zero
decimal places; value 76.
= ROUNDDOWN (3.14159, 3) Rounds 3.14159 down to three
decimal places; value 3.141.
= ROUNDDOWN (-3.14159, 1) Rounds -3.14159 down to one
decimal place; value -3.1.
= ROUNDDOWN (31415.92654, -2) Rounds 31415.92654 down to 2
decimal places to the left of the
decimal; value 31400.
3. COUNT
This function counts the number of cells that contain numbers and
counts numbers within the list of arguments. COUNT is use to get the
number of the entries in a number field (including date also) i.e. in a
range or array of numbers.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
33
In Excel other than counting function COUNT; other functions are
COUNTA, COUNTBLANK, and COUNTIF —
which  enable us to count the number of
cells that contain values, are nonblank (and
thus contain entries of any kind), or count
only the cells in a given range that meet
the user defined criteria.
The syntax for COUNT is COUNT (value1,
value2…..,) where value1, value2, ...   are
1 to 255 arguments that can be a variety
of different types of data(logical values
represented in numbers, numbers, dates,
or text representation of numbers), but only
numbers are counted.
Arguments that are error values or text
that cannot be translated into numbers are ignored.
If an argument is an array or reference, only numbers in that array or
reference are counted. Empty cells, logical values, text, or error values
in the array or reference are ignored.
COUNTA function will be count logical values, text, or err or values.
The Figure 2.20 contains a named range for cells A1:B9 as Count_Data
There are other functions also such as ROWS and COLUMNS
 are used.
The syntax is as follows:
ROWS ( array)
The function returns the number of rows in a reference or array; where
an Array   is an array, an array formula or a reference to a range of
cells for which we want the number of rows.
COLUMNS ( array)
This function returns the number of columns in an array or named
range reference; where an  Array    is an array or array formula or a
reference to a range of cells for whic h we want the number of columns.
Figure 2.20
Array ArrayArrayArrayArray: Used to build single for mulas that produce multiple r
esults or that operate on
a group of arguments that are arranged in rows and columns. An array range shares
a common formula; an array constant is a gr oup of constants used as an argument.
Array for Array forArray for Array forArray for mula mulamula mulamula : A for mula that performs multiple calculations on one or mor e sets of
values, and then returns either a single r esult or multiple results. Array formulas are
enclosed between braces { } and are entered by pressing CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.
COUNTIF (range, criteria ) (Figure 2.21)
This function counts the number of cells within a range that meet the
given criteria; in this function the Range  is one or more cells to count,
including numbers or names, arrays, or references that contain
numbers. The blank cells and text values are ignored. (e.g. A2:B5)
Reprint 2024-25

34
Computerised Accounting System
Criteria are the for m of a number , expr ession,
cell reference, or text that defines which cells
will be counted. For example, criteria can be
expressed as 32, “32”, “>32”, “apples”, or B4.
2.1.4.3 Text Manipulation Function
1. TEXT
This function converts a numeric value to text
in a specific number format; and the syntax is :
TEXT (value, format_text) where,
Value   is a numeric value, a for mula that evaluates to a
numeric value, or a reference to a cell containing a numeric value.
Format_text   is a numeric format as a text string enclosed in quotation
marks. We can see various numeric for mats by clicking the Number,
Date, Time
, Currency, or Custom in the Category box of the Number
tab in the Format Cells  dialog box, and then viewing the formats
displayed.
This function is useful in situations where we want to display
numbers in a more readable format, or want to combine numbers with
text or symbols. For example, suppose cell L1 contains the number
23.5. Suppose we want to format this number by adding with “Rs.”
and convert into amount using this function:
=TEXT L1,”Rs. 0.00")   which will be displayed as Rs. 23.50 (Figure
2.22).
We can also for mat numbers by using the
commands in the Number group on the Home
tab of the Ribbon. However, these commands work
only if the entire cell is numeric . Refer Figure
2.22(a); you will find in cell A5(A6) using
function combined with ‘$’ sign which can be
used with other functions (such as logical).
2. CONCA TENATE
This function joins two or more text strings into one text string and its syntax is
:
CONCA TENA TE  ( text1 ,
text2,...) where
text1, text2,   …. are  2 to 255
text items to be joined into a
single text item. The text items
can be text strings, numbers, or
single-cell references.
Example combining First Name,
Figure 2.21
Figure 2.22
Figure 2.22(a)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
35
Middle Name and Surname of the employees into Full Name using
CONCATENATE Function (Figure 2.22(b).
2.1.4.4 Logical Function
We have lear ned earlier about
IF functions in this chapter. Let us
understand two more other logical
functions which are very useful.
When a situation arises to compare
more than one condition and the
result of joint conditions is used
for further operations.
Figure 2.22(b)
1. AND function gives only a TRUE or FALSE answer.
To determine whether the output will be TRUE or FALSE, the AND
function evaluates at least one mathematical expression located in
another cell in the spreadsheet. The syntax for the AND function is:
= AND (logical-1, logical-2, ... logical-255 )
where logical-1 , logical-2 , ... - refers to the cell reference that is
being checked. Up to 255 logical values can be entered into the function.
Returns TRUE if all its ar guments evaluate to TRUE; r eturns FALSE
if one or mor
e arguments evaluate to FALSE.
Example ExampleExample ExampleExample
1.  In the following example the outcome of two logical values is given
in Result
Formula Description Result
a.= AND (TRUE, TRUE) all arguments are TRUE TRUE
b.= AND (TRUE, FALSE) One argument is FALSE FALSE
c.= AND (2+2=4, 2+3=5) all arguments evaluate to TRUE TRUE
2.  In these example there are two cell values cell A2 contains 50 and
cell A3 contain 104 then :
Formula Description Result
a. =AND (A2>1, A2<100) Displays TRUE if the number  TRUE
in cell A2 is between 1 and 100.
Otherwise, it displays FALSE.
b. =IF(AND(A3>1, A3<100), Displays the number in cell “The value is
  A3,“The value is out of if it is between 1 and 100. out of range.
Otherwise, it displays the
message
c. =IF(AND(A2>1, A2<100), Displays the number in cell A2, 50
A2, “The value is out of if it is between 1 and 100.
range.”) Otherwise, it displays a message.
A logical valuelogical valuelogical valuelogical valuelogical value  (true or false) outcome is the comparison of data values
or results of arithmetic expressions  compared  with another data values
or results of  another arithmetical expressions using logical operator.
Reprint 2024-25

36
Computerised Accounting System
One common use for the AND  function is to expand the usefulness of
other functions that perform logical tests.
In the above example, the IF function performs a logical test and then
returns one value if the test evaluates to TRUE and another value if the
test evaluates to FALSE. By using the AND function as the  logical_test logical_test logical_test logical_test logical_test
argument of the IF function, we can test many different conditions.
2. OR function is like other logical functions, the OR function gives
only a TRUE or FALSE answer. To deter mine whether the output will
be TRUE  or FALSE , the OR functions evaluates at least one
mathematical expression located in another cell in the spreadsheet.
This function r eturns TRUE if any argument is TRUE; returns FALSE
if all ar guments ar e FALSE.
The syntax for the OR function is:
= OR (logical-1, logical-2, ... logical-255 )
Logical-1, logical-2 …  - refers to the cell references that are being
checked. Up to 255 logical values can be entered into the function.
Example
ExampleExample ExampleExample
Formula Description Result
a.= OR (TRUE, FALSE) One argument is TRUE TRUE
b.=OR ((1+1)=1,(2+2)=5) All arguments evaluate to FALSE FALSE
c.=OR (TRUE,FALSE,TRUE) At least one argument is TRUE TRUE
2.1.4.5 Lookup and References Function
The LOOKUP function returns a value either from a one-row or one-
column range or from an array. The LOOKUP function has two syntax
forms: vector and array.
The Look Up function can be used as an alternative to the IF function
for elaborate tests or tests that exceeds the limit for nesting of IF
functions.
The vector forvector forvector forvector forvector for m mm mm of LOOKUPLOOKUPLOOKUP
LOOKUPLOOKUP  looks in a one-r ow or one-column range (known as a
vector) for a value, and then r eturns a value from the same position in a second one-
row or one-column range.
The array for array forarray for array forarray for m mm mm of LOOKUP LOOKUPLOOKUP LOOKUPLOOKUP  looks in the first r ow or column of an array for the
specified value, and then r eturns a value fr om the same position in the last r ow or
column of the array.
1.  LOOKUP 1.  LOOKUP 1.  LOOKUP 1.  LOOKUP 1.  LOOKUP (Vector Form)
The syntax is LOOKUP ( lookup_valuelookup_valuelookup_valuelookup_valuelookup_value , lookup_vectorlookup_vectorlookup_vectorlookup_vectorlookup_vector , r rr rresult_vectoresult_vectoresult_vectoresult_vectoresult_vector )
• Lookup_value is a value that LOOKUP searches for in the first
vector. Lookup_value can be a number , text, a logical value, or a
name or reference that refers to a value.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
37
• Lookup_vector  is a range that contains only one row or one
column. The values in lookup_vector  can be text, numbers, or
logical values.
It is important to know that  the values in lookup_vector  must be placed
in ascending order. For example, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2 or A-Z or F ALSE, TRUE
else LOOKUP may not give the correct value.
• Result_vector is a range that contains only one row or column. It
must be the same size as lookup_vector.
• If LOOKUP  cannot find the lookup_value , it
matches the largest value in lookup_vector that
is less than or equal to lookup_value.
• If lookup_value is smaller than the smallest value
in lookup_vector, LOOKUP gives the #N/A err or
value.
Example
ExampleExample ExampleExample  (Figure 2.23)
Column (A) and Column (B) dipicts the frequency and
name of Colour respectively. The results of the use of
LOOKUP function.
Function Description (Result)
=LOOKUP (4.19, A2:A6, B2:B6) Looks up 4.19 in column (A), and returns
the value from column (B) that is in the
same row (orange).
=LOOKUP (5.00, A2:A6, B2:B6) Looks up 5.00 in column (A), and returns
the value from column (B) that is in the
same row (orange).
=LOOKUP (7.66, A2:A6, B2:B6) Looks up 7.66 in column (A), matches the
next smallest value (6.39), and returns the
value from column (B) that is in the same
row (blue).
=LOOKUP (0, A2:A6, B2:B6) Looks up 0 in column (A), and returns an
error because 0 is less than the smallest
value in the lookup vector A2:A7 (#N/A).
2.  LOOKUP2.  LOOKUP2.  LOOKUP2.  LOOKUP2.  LOOKUP  (Array Form)
The syntax is LOOKUP ( lookup_valuelookup_valuelookup_valuelookup_valuelookup_value , array arrayarray arrayarray)
• Lookup_value is a value that LOOKUP searches for in an array.
Lookup_value can be a number , text, a logical value, or a name
or reference that refers to a value.
/lozenge4 If LOOKUP cannot find the lookup_value, it uses the largest
value in the array that is less than or equal to lookup_value.
/lozenge4 If lookup_value  is smaller than the smallest value in the first
row or column (depending on the array dimensions), LOOKUP
returns the #N/A error value.
A B
1 Frequency Colour
2 4.14 red
3 4.19 orange
4 5.17 yellow
5 5.77 green
6 6.39 blue
Figure 2.23
Reprint 2024-25

38
Computerised Accounting System
• Array is a range of cells that contains text, numbers, or logical
values that we want to compare with lookup_value.
/lozenge4 If array covers an area that is wider than
it is tall (more columns than rows),
LOOKUP searches for lookup_value in the
first row.
/lozenge4 If array
 is square or is taller than it is the
wide (more rows than columns), LOOKUP
searches in the first column.
Example Example Example Example Example (Figure 2.23(a))
Column (A) contains a, b, c, d some text values and Column (B)
contain 10, 20, 30, and 40 some numbers. The Array is A1:B4.
The LOOKUP function used for different alpha character as follows:
Function Description (Result)
=LOOKUP (“c”, A1:B4) Looks up “C” in first row of the array
and returns the value in the last
row that is in the same column (30).
=LOOKUP (“b”, A1:B4) Looks up “b” in first row of the array
and returns the value in the last column
that is in the same row (20).
3.  VLOOKUP3.  VLOOKUP3.  VLOOKUP3.  VLOOKUP3.  VLOOKUP
The VLOOKUP function, which stands for vertical lookup, helps us to
find specific information in large data tables such as an inventory list
of parts or a large employee contact list. The VLOOKUP  function
searches and matches first the required value from the column of a
range of cells, and then returns a value from any cell on the same row
of the range. The syntax is
VLOOKUP (lookup_value, table_array,  col_index_num, range_lookup)
where
Lookup_value - The value to search in the first column of the table.
Lookup_value can be a value or a reference. If lookup_value is smaller
than the smallest value in the first column of table_array, VLOOKUP
returns the #N/A error value.
Table_array   - Two or more columns of data. Use a reference to a
range or a range name. The values in the first column of table_array
are the values searched by lookup_value. These values can be text,
numbers, or logical values. Uppercase and lowercase texts are
equivalent.
Col_index_num  – The column number in table_array from which the
matching value must be returned. A col_index_num of 1 returns the
value in the first column in table_array; a col_index_num of 2 returns
A  B
1 a 10
2 b 20
3 c 30
4 d 40
Figure 2.23(a)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
39
the value in the second column in table_array, and so on. If
col_index_num is:
• Less than 1, VLOOKUP r eturns the #V ALUE! err or value.
• Greater than the number of columns in table_array, VLOOKUP
returns the #REF! Error value.
Range_lookup  – A logical value that specifies whether we want
VLOOKUP to find an exact match or an approximate match:
• If TRUE or omitted, an exact or approximate match is returned.
If an exact match is not found, the next largest value that is less
than lookup_value is returned. The values in the first column of
table_array must be placed in ascending sort order; otherwise,
VLOOKUP may not give the correct value.
• If FALSE, VLOOKUP will only find an exact match. In this case,
the values in the first column of table_array do not need to be
sorted. If there are two or more values
in the first column of table_array that
match the lookup_value, the first
value found is used. If an exact match
is not found, the error value #N/A is
returned.
In the following examples we will explain
the steps how the VLOOKUP function to
find the specific information from the
spreadsheet table.
Example -1Example -1Example -1Example -1Example -1  (Refer Figure 2.24) to find out
employee’s Basic Pay
=VLOOKUP (A3, A1:D7, 4, FALSE)
Lookup the Basic Pay for Employee Code
3456 (A3) in the first column and return
the matching value in the same row of the
fourth column i.e. 3453.00(d3).
Example - 2Example - 2Example - 2Example - 2Example - 2  (Refer Figure 2.25)
In this example we search the column Item-
ID of baby products from the table A2 :D6
and match the values in the Cost (column
number 3) and Markup (column number 4) columns to calculate prices
and with different test conditions. The final result of the function is
also given after description.
Function Description
= VLOOKUP (“DI-328”, A2:D6, 3, Calculates the retail price of diapers by
FALSE) *  (1 + VLOOKUP  (“DI-328”, adding the markup percentage to the
A2:D6, 4, FALSE)). cost.    Result Rs. 28.96
Figure 2.24
Figure 2.25
Reprint 2024-25

40
Computerised Accounting System
= (VLOOKUP (“WI-989”, A2:D6, 3, Calculates the sale price of wipes by
FALSE) *  (1 + VLOOKUP (“WI-989”, subtracting a specified discount  4,
A2:D6, FALSE))) * (1 - 20%). from the retail price  Result .Rs. 5.73
= IF(VLOOKUP(A2, A2:D6, 3, If the cost of an item is greater than
FALSE) >= 20, “Markup is” and or equal to Rs. 20.00, displays the
100 * VLOOKUP (A2, A2:D6, 4, string “Markup is nn%”; otherwise,
FALSE) and ”%”, “Cost is under displays the string “Cost is under
Rs.20.00”). Rs. 20.00”.
        Result: Markup is 30%
= IF (VLOOKUP (A3, A2:D6, 3, If the cost of an item is greater than
FALSE) >= 20, “Markup is:” and or equal toRs.20.00, displays the string
100 * VLOOKUP (A3, A2:D6, 4, Markup is nn%”; otherwise, displays
FALSE) and”%”, “Cost is Rs.” and the string “Cost is Rs.n.nn”.
VLOOKUP (A3, A2:D6, 3, FALSE))        Result: Cost is Rs. 3.56
4. HLOOKUP4. HLOOKUP4. HLOOKUP4. HLOOKUP4. HLOOKUP
The HLOOKUP function (short name of H
orizontal Lookup), searches
for a value in the first row of a table array and returns the corresponding
value in the same column from another row of the same table array.
The syntax for HLOOKUP is as follows:
HLOOKUP(lookup_value, table_array, row_index_num,
range_lookup)  where
• Lookup_value – The value to search for in the first row of the
table array.
• Table_array  – Two or more rows of data. The values in the
first row of the table_array are the values searched for the
lookup_value. These values can be text, numbers, or logical
values. Uppercase and lowercase texts are equivalent.
• Row_index_num – The row number in table_array from which
the corresponding value must be returned. A row_index_num
of 2 returns the value in the second column in table_array; a
row_index_num of 3 returns the value in the third column in
table_array, and so on.
• Range_lookup –  A logical value that specifies whether we
want HLOOKUP to find an exact match or an approximate
match. If set to “FALSE”, a corresponding value will be returned
only if an exact match is found. If set to “TRUE”, the nearest
match will be considered if an exact one is not found.
Let us take a simple example to understand the HLOOKUP function:
In the following two different worksheets:
Example Example Example Example Example (Figure 2.26 and 2.27)
Worksheet 1  - The values for Budget are in Row 2 corresponding to
each Quarter in Row 1.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
41
Worksheet 2 - Corresponding to each Quarter
(column ( C)); some part of budget is Spent
(column ( E)) – which is listed vertically. W e
want to pick the budget for each quarter from
the Worksheet 1 and put it in column (D) of
Worksheet 2  and then calculate the amount
Pending (column (
F)) correspondingly. In cell
D2:D5 we will enter the HLOOKUP function
as follows: (as shown for D4 cell) = HLOOKUP
(C4; Budget! $A$1:$E$2; 2; FALSE) where in
this function.
C4 lookup value, for the
quarter
budget!$B$1:$E$2 Table array, found in worksheet 1:  named
budget.
2 Row_index_num, is the row 2 in worksheet
1: named Budget
FALSE We want to find an exact match
Pending = D4-E4    Copy both the functions from
D4 to the Cells D2, D3 and D5 and from
F4 to Cells F2, F3 and F5 can be copied.
It is important to note that whenever any table array (or array) is
referred in lookup functions the cell address referred (normally it is
relative) must be converted in to absolute cell addresses.
2.1.2.6 Financial Functions
1. ACCRINT1. ACCRINT1. ACCRINT1. ACCRINT1. ACCRINT
This function returns the accrued interest for a security that pays
periodic interest. The syntax of this is as follows:
ACCRINT (issue, first_inter est, settlement, rate, par , fr equency, basis,
calc_method)
Dates should be entered by using the DATE function, or as results
of other formulas or functions. For example, use DATE (2008, 5, 23) for
the 23rd day of May, 2008. Problems can be occur if dates are entered
as text.
Issue is the security’s issue date.
first_interest is the security’s first interest date.
Settlement   is the security’s settlement date. The security
settlement date is the date after the issue date when
the security is traded to the buyer.
Rate is the security’s annual coupon rate.
Par is the security’s par value. By default Par is 1000
Figures 2.26 and  2.27
Reprint 2024-25

42
Computerised Accounting System
Frequency is the number of coupon payments per year.
For annual payments, frequency = 1; for Semi-
annual, frequency = 2; for quarterly, frequency = 4.
Basis   is the type of day count basis to use.
Excel stores dates as sequential serial numbers so they can be
used in calculations. By default, January 1, 1900 is serial number 1,
and January 1, 2008 is serial number 39448 because it is 39,448 days
after January 1, 1900; in Excel for the ACCRINT is calculated as follows:
1
1
NC
1
rate AACCRINT par   frequency NLλ
= × × ∑
2. CUMIPMT2. CUMIPMT2. CUMIPMT2. CUMIPMT2. CUMIPMT
This function returns the cumulative interest paid between two periods
(Refer Figure 2.28). The syntax of the function is:
CUMIPMT ( rate, nper, pv, start_period, end_period, type)
Rate is the interest rate.
Nper is the total number of
payment periods.
Pv is the present value.
Start_period is the first period in the
calculation. Payment
periods are numbered
beginning with 1.
End_period    is the last period in the
calculation.
Type   is the timing of the payment (which may be either 0 or 1)
0 (zero) means Payment at the end of the period
1 means Payment at the beginning of the period.
3. PV 3. PV3. PV3. PV3. PV
This function returns the present value
of an investment. The present value is
the total amount that a series of future
payments is worth now. For example,
when we borrow money, the loan amount
is the present value (Figure 2.29). The
syntax of the function is :
PV (rate, nper, pmt, fv, type) wher e
Rate
   is the interest rate per period.
For example, for an automobile loan at a
Figure 2.28
Figure 2.29
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
43
10% annual interest rate and installments are made the monthly
payments, then the interest rate per month is 10%/12, or 0.83%. The
value for rate into the function will be 10%/12, or 0.83%, or 0.0083.
Nper   is the total number of payment periods in an annuity. For
example, if this loan is a four -year car loan and makes monthly
payments, then loan has 4*12 (or 48) periods. The value for nper will
be 48.
Pmt   is the payment made each period and cannot be change over
the life of the annuity. Typically, pmt includes principal and interest
but no other fees or taxes. For example, the monthly payments on an
Rs.10, 000, for four -year car loan at 12 per cent ar e Rs. 263.33. W e
have to enter -263.33 into the function as the pmt. If pmt is omitted,
then fv must be included in the argument.
Fv   is the future value, or a cash balance to attain after the last
payment is made. If fv is omitted, it is assumed to be 0 (the future
value of a loan, for example, is 0). For example, if we want to save
Rs. 50,000 to pay for a special project in 18 years, then Rs. 50,000 is
the future value. Then it is necessary to guess an interest rate and
determine how much to save each month. If fv is omitted, then pmt
must be included as the argument.
Type   is the number 0 or 1 and indicates when payments are due.
The fv and type arguments are optional. The fv argument is the future
value or cash balance that we want to have after making last payment.
If we omit the fv argument, Excel assumes a future value of zero. The
type argument indicates whether the payment is made at the beginning
or end of the period: (0 or omit the type argument when the payment is
made at the end of the period and use 1 when it is made at the beginning
of the period).
When using financial functions, keep in mind that the fv, pv, and
pmt arguments can be positive or negative, depending on whether we
are receiving the money or paying out the money. It may be noted that
if we want to express the 
rate argument in the same units as the nper
argument, so that if we make monthly payments on a loan and we
express the nper as the total number of monthly payments, as in 360
(30×12) for a 30-year mortgage, we need to express the annual interest
rate in monthly terms as well. Excel solves for one financial argument
in terms of the others. If rate is not 0, then:
If rate is 0, then:
(pmt * nper) + pv + fv = 0
nper
nper
pv * (1 rate) pmt(1 rate * type)*
(1 rate) 1                 fv Crate
+ + +
 + − + =  
Reprint 2024-25

44
Computerised Accounting System
An annuity annuityannuityannuityannuity  is a series of constant cash payments made over a
continuous period. For example, a car loan or a mortgage is an annuity.
4.  FV
4.  FV4.  FV 4.  FV4.  FV
This function returns the future value of an investment based on
periodic, constant payment and a constant interest rate (Figure 2.30).
The syntax of the function is :
FV (rate, nper, pmt, pv, type) where
Rate is the interest rate per period.
Nper is the total number of payment periods in an annuity.
Pmt is the payment made each period; it cannot change over
the life of the annuity. Typically, pmt contains principal
and interest but no other fees or taxes. If pmt is omitted,
then include the pv value in the argument.
Pv is the present value, or  the lump-sum  amount that a
series of future payments is  worth right  now. If  pv is
omitted, it is assumed to be 0 (zero), and then include
the pmt value in the argument.
Type is the number 0 or 1 and indicates when payments are
due. If type is omitted, it is assumed to be 0.
Example ExampleExample ExampleExample
Figure 2.30
In the function FV ( rate, nper , pmt, pv, type); the values ar e
substituted as given in different cells of the worksheets and the result
cell A8 is having Rs. 2581.40 first worksheet  for type is 1 while in
second worksheet  shows the value of  result  Rs. 2571.18 for type is 0.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
45
5.  PMT 5.  PMT5.  PMT5.  PMT5.  PMT
The PMT function calculates the periodic payment for an annuity,
assuming equal payments and a constant rate of interest (Figure
2.26(d)). The syntax of PMT function is as follows:
= PMT(rate, nper, pv, [fv], [type]) wher e
rate is the interest rate per period,
nper is the number of periods,
pv is the present value or the amount the future payments
are worth presently,
fv is the future value or cash balance that after the last
payment is made 
(a future value of zero when we omit this
optional argument)
type is the value 0 for payments made at the end of the period
or the value 1 for payments made at the beginning of the
period.
The PMT function is often used to calculate the payment for mortgage
loans that have a fixed rate of interest.
Example ExampleExample ExampleExample  (Figure 2.31)
In the sample worksheet that contains a
table using the PMT function to calculate
loan payments for interest rate 8% per
annum and principal amount  Rs. 1000/-
Here we have used both values of type
= 0 and 1
6.  RATE 6.  RATE6.  RATE 6.  RATE6.  RATE
This function returns the interest rate per period of an annuity. RATE
is calculated by iteration and can have zero or more solutions. If the
successive results of RATE do not converge to within 0.0000001 after
20 iterations, RATE returns the #NUM! error value (2.32). The syntax
of the function is as follows:
RATE (nper, pmt, pv, fv, type, guess) wher e.
Nper is the total number of payment
periods in an annuity.
Pmt  is the payment made each period
and cannot change over the life
of the annuity. Typically, pmt
includes principal and interest
but no other fees or taxes. If pmt
is omitted, then include the fv
as argument.
Figure 2.31
Figure 2.32
Reprint 2024-25

46
Computerised Accounting System
Pv is the present value — the total amount that a series of
future payments is worth now.
Fv is the future value, or a cash balance attain after the last
payment is made.
If fv is omitted, it is assumed to be 0 (the future value of a
loan, for example, is 0).
Type is the number 0 or 1 and indicates when payments are due.
0 or omitted means payment is due at the end of the period 1
means payment is due at the beginning of the period.
Guess is the guess for what the rate will be. If omitted, it is assumed
to be 10 per -cent.
7.  NPV 7.  NPV7.  NPV7.  NPV7.  NPV
This function calculates the net present value of an investment by
using a discount rate and a series of future payments (negative values)
and income (positive values). The syntax for the function is:
NPV (rate, value1, value2 ,…. ) where
Rate  is the rate of discount over the length of one
period.
Value1, value2, ...   are 1 to 254 arguments representing the
payments and income. 
Value1, value2, ... must
be equally spaced in time and occur at the end
of each period. NPV uses the order of value1,
value2 …., to interpret the order of cash flows.
It is essential that entry for payment and income
values are in the correct sequence.
The NPV investment begins one period before the date of the value1
cash flow and ends with the last cash flow in the list. The NPV
calculation is based on future cash flows.
If n is the number of cash flows in the list of
values, the formula for NPV is:
NPV (Figure 2.33) is similar to the PV
function (present value). The primary
difference between PV and NPV is that
PV allows cash flows to begin either at
the end or at the beginning of the period.
Unlike the variable NPV cash flow values,
PV cash flows must be constant
throughout the investment.
NPV is also related to the IRR function
(internal rate of return). IRR is the rate for
which NPV equals zero: NPV (IRR (...),) = 0.
n
i
i
i 1
values
(1 rate)−
=
+∑NPV
Figure 2.33
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
47
2.2 DATA ENTRY, TEXT MANAGEMENT AND CELL
FORMATTING
In any computerised business application , the basic requirement is to
input data; which may be either for processing parameters e.g. input of
data parameters such as month number and name of the month or number
of working days, DA%, etc.  for the  processing of payroll  of the company
or to update various data elements. In both the cases data   should be
correct, accurate and should be in proper format. This means that data
should be validated, corrected and can be display in proper format.
By default in spreadsheet the numbers are right aligned and texts
are left aligned. The spreadsheet can distinguish different types of
numbers; recognise a date, a currency, or a percentage value or text
etc.  For example, if we type 16/04/1980 in a cell, spreadsheet will
recognise it as a date and act accordingly. The software processes the
data and generates the output; which should be in specific format.
For example 1.5 might represent a value for one and half teaspoon in
one spreadsheet while the same 1.5 would represent constant multiplier
for age in another spreadsheet etc.
2.2.1  DATA ENTRY
Excel also facilitates fast data entry; and automatically repeats data
or can fill data in different cells (column wise or row wise.) For example,
if we repeatedly type the days of the week in different cells instead of
that we could use the built-in data fill options to fill  the different
cells with the days automatically. Some of the methods for data entry
are mentioned below:
2.2.1.1 The data fill options
The 
Fill command can be used to fill data into
worksheet cells (Figure 2.36 & 2.37 . The Excel
provides for entering data automatically to
continue a series of numbers, number and text
combinations, dates, or time periods, based on
a patter n that we r equir e. However , to fill
quickly in several types of data series, we select
cells and drag the fill handle 
 ( A Fill
handle is the small black square in the lower -
right corner of the selection. When we point to
the fill handle, the pointer changes to a black
cross (Refer Figure 2.34 and 2.35).
The fill handle is displayed by default, Click the Microsoft
Office Button 
, and then click Excel Options .
1. Click Advanced, and then under Editing options , clear or select
the Enable Fill handle and cell drag-and-drop  check box to hide or
display the fill handle.
Figure 2.34
Figure 2.35
Reprint 2024-25

48
Computerised Accounting System
2. To avoid replacing existing data when we drag the fill handle, to
make sure that the Alert before overwriting cells  check box is
selected. If we don’t want to receive a message about overwriting
non-blank cells, we can clear this check box.
After we drag the fill handle, the Auto Fill Options button 
appears
so that we can choose how the selection is filled. For example, we can
choose to fill just cell formats by clicking Fill Formatting Only , or we
can choose to fill just the contents of a cell by clicking Fill Without
Formatting.
Option -1 Drag the fill handle to fill data into adjacent cellsOption -1 Drag the fill handle to fill data into adjacent cellsOption -1 Drag the fill handle to fill data into adjacent cellsOption -1 Drag the fill handle to fill data into adjacent cellsOption -1 Drag the fill handle to fill data into adjacent cells
(Figure 2.38)
For example, we  want to enter
data in A1:A10 starting value
from 10 and in step of 10 we
will get 10, 20, … 100 by using
drag option as shown in the
Figure 2.34 and Figure 2.35
respectively.
1. Select the cells that contain the data that we want to
fill (A1:A2) into adjacent cells (A3:A10).
2. Drag the fill handle across the cells that we want to
fill.
3. To choose how we want to fill the selection, click Auto Fill
Options, and then click the option that we want.
Figure 2.36
Option - 2 fill the active cell with the contents of an adjacent cellOption - 2 fill the active cell with the contents of an adjacent cellOption - 2 fill the active cell with the contents of an adjacent cellOption - 2 fill the active cell with the contents of an adjacent cellOption - 2 fill the active cell with the contents of an adjacent cell
1. Select an empty cell (A1) enter the value 10.
2. On the Home tab, in the  Editing group, click  Fill, and then click
on Series option.
Figure 2.38
Figure 2.37
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
49
3. The option window provides direction (row wise i.e., B1:J1 or column
wise i.e., A2:A10) selection. The main option is Step V alue (i.e.
increment to the previous cell values in linear form) it is 10 in this
example with respect to cell A1 and while another option is  Stop
Value ( i.e. last value of the data when it is achieved the data fill
stops) is 100 which may be in cell A10.
4. Once we enter the all the options and click OK , we get data filled in
the series A1:A0 as 10:100 in step of 10.
Observe the another example  for Date data we can use fill handle
(it is important to note that all the cells of the columns or rows should
be defined in (required) date data format using Format Cells). In this
example we will enter date 24-11-1952 (or 24-Nov-1952) in cell A1 and
24-12-1952 (or 24-Dec-1952) in cell A2 and then use Auto Fill Options
button  between cells A3:A10; find the changes?
2.2.1.2 Import/Copy Data from other sources
One more method for data entry for any application we can use the
following easiest method which will transfer data into required cells
by copying or importing to Excel worksheet. These data files may be
either in text files or non-text files format.
Text files can be directly read using a text editor such as Note pad
in MS Windows. These files often have extension .txt but can have
other extensions (such as .csv known as Comma Separated V alues
text file), easily read into Excel.
To import the data from a text file following steps are important for
Figure 2.39.
1. Create data file using Notepad program of MS Windows (to get
Notepad screen on desktop; click on Start button -> All Programs -
> Accessories -> Notepad).
2. A comma-separated data values in one line of this text file is a row
in a spreadsheet and each entry, separated by a comma, is a column
entry for that row.
3. In the first line provides names for
the columns of the spreadsheet.
4. In the next line onward start
entering the data separate by
comma as per the names given in
first line.
5. It may possible that every data
may not be of similar length but
each data (even a blank data)
should be separated by comma as
per the names of the column.
6. Open a new Excel worksheet from the Office Button.
Figure 2.39
Reprint 2024-25

50
Computerised Accounting System
7. Select Data Tab on the Ribbon.
8. On Data tab; an option Get External Data having From Text option.
9. Click on “From Text” which will allow selecting a Notepad file (Figure
2.40 & 2.41) saved as .cvm into Excel format directly and data will
be copied into respective columns and rows.
10. Each and every data from Notepad file can be saved as an Excel
data file This provides a lead that Excel worksheet consists of four
types of data in cells: labels, values, date and formulas and data
validation.
Figure 2.41
Figure 2.40
• Labels (text) are descriptive data such as names, months and
usually include alphabetic characters. Excel aligns text to the
left side of the cell.
• Values (numbers) ar e generally raw numbers or dates.
/lozenge4 Whole value: If the data is a whole value, such as 34 or 5763,
Excel aligns the data to the right side of the cell.
/lozenge4 Vale with a decimal:  If the data is a decimal value, Excel
aligns the data to the right side of the cell, including the
decimal point, with the exception of a trailing 0. For example,
if we enter 246.75, then 246.75 displays; such as 246.70, will
display as 246.7. W e can change the display appearance,
column width, and alignment of data.
• Formulas are instructions for Excel to perform calculations.
• Date: If we enter a date, such 16/12, Dec 16, or 16 Dec, Excel
automatically returns 16-Dec in the cell, but the Formula bar
displays 16/12/2008. (The Date format is dependent to Country
Specific Format selection).
2.2.2 DATA
 VALIDATION
Data validation is a feature to define restrictions on type of data entered
into a cell. W e can configur e data validation rules for cells data that
will not allow users to enter invalid data, There may be warning
messages when users tries to type wrong data in the cell. The messages
also guide users to what input is expected for the cell, and instructions
to correct any errors.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
51
Data validation is invaluable because it is necessary that data must
be accurate and consistent. The different methods for data validation
are as follows:
• Create a Drop down List  – By this option pre-defined items names
list is referred and restrict the users to select accordingly – e.g. In
the organisation for a business application we want to restrict the
Figure 2.42
users not to enter the names of departments other than Sales,
Finance, R&D, Operation, HR and IT, etc.; for qualification of each
employee not to enter other than MBA, PHD, CA, MCA, ARCHITECT
and MBBS, etc., and the Sex Code should be either “Male” or
“Female” for the employees. Following are the steps described how
to use drop down list: A drop-down list  can be prepared in three
different ways which can be used for data validation (Figure 2.42).
• Type a list of values separated by commas, i.e. using delimited
list e.g. Male, Female
• Select the cells on the worksheet
whose values can be used directly
typed in a single row or single
column
• Select the data in cells and create
a Named Range to refer
/lozenge4 Open a blank worksheet
/lozenge4 Enter the column titles e.g
Employee Name (cell A1),
Department (cell B1), Quali-
fication (cell C1) and Sex Code
(cell D1) in the first row and four
different columns respectively
(Figure 2.42).
Figure 2.43
Reprint 2024-25

52
Computerised Accounting System
/lozenge4 Enter the Names of Employees in the
column (a) (cells A2:A10).
/lozenge4 Prepare a list of department names
some where in the worksheet  (say
G3:G9).
/lozenge4 Define the Named range ( using
Formula Tab ->Define Name on the
ribbon) say DEPT .
/lozenge4 Select the column (b) e.g. Department
(data to be validated in whole column).
Figure 2.44
/lozenge4 In the Data Tab of the ribbon click Data Validation on Data
Tools opens three Data Validation Tabs (Figure 2.43). The first
tab is Setting Tab select List for drop down list option.
/lozenge4 This option will display V alidation Criteria and to pr ovide valid
data List in the Source where we have to type Name of the
Range as =DEPT (Figure 2.44). The two more options also
required clicking here one Ignore Blank box then empty or
blank values won’t be allowed and other is In-cell drop down.
/lozenge4 To display an input message when a cell (e.g. B2 later B3:B10) is
selected, click the second tab on data validation option, i.e. Input
Message Tab (Figure 2.45) and enter the desired text in the Title
(e.g. DEPT_T) and provide an input short message for the user
(e.g. SELECT/ENTER DEP ARTMENT). Also tick the option to
display this message when the cell is selected  (Figure 2.46).
/lozenge4 To set the response settings when invalid data is entered into
the cell click on the third tab of data validation option (Figure
2.46) i.e.  Error Alert Tab. This tab enables :
(a) To display the error alert after invalid data is entered in
the box.
(b) Enter message allows to type the desired message for
user and title for reference purpose.
Figure 2.46Figure 2.45
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
53
(c) In Style dr op-down menu select Infor mation, Warning or
Stop as per the severity and accuracy requirement for
data where.
(i) Information:  displays a message but will prevent
entry of invalid data.
(ii) Warning: displays a war ning message but will not
prevent entry of invalid data.
(iii) Stop: will prevent invalid entry of data.
The steps discussed above are shown below in different diagrams
(Figures 2.47(a) to 2.47(d)) which are self explanatory when data for
Department are to be entered in the worksheet:
Figure 2.47 (a) Figure 2.47(b)
Figure 2.47(c) Figure 2.47(d)
To select data or reefing the limited number of data items we can
type the list in the Source Box, separated by commas (Figure 2.43) e.g.
as to enter the Sex Code either Male of Female for an Employee we can
type as =Male, Female. This method of data validation is case sensitive;
if a user types MALE, an error alert will be displayed.
• Setting Limits – As mentioned earlier in the Allow drop-down menu,
select Whole Number, Decimal, Date, Time, or Text Length.
Reprint 2024-25

54
Computerised Accounting System
For example in the same worksheet we can restrict the minimum
age of an employee should be 18 and maximum age should be 58 (Age
can be entered as Whole Number  or can be entered Date of Birth as
Date selection then age is calculated) .
In this example if Age is a data
element to be entered for every
employee we will validate the Age
as whole number and  outside a
specified range in a particular cell
providing value in Setting tab
(Figure 2.48) and data in between
of minimum 18 and maximum 58
respectively.
Similarly we can check the
number of text characters required
in Employee Name column (for
every employee) i.e. the cell should
not contain blank data; and error message should be displayed e.g.,
we can limit the minimum number of characters in the Employee Name
cell to 10 or less.
• Setting Limits with a Formula – To validate data based on formulas
or values entered in other cells (Figure 2.49). The steps are  as:
• In the Allow drop-down menu, select 
Custom.
Figure 2.48
Figure 2.49 Figure 2.50
• In the Formula box, enter a formula that calculates a logical value.
If the formula calculates TRUE entry will be valid. If the formula
calculates FALSE entry will be invalid.  The cell gives error message
if the values are not meeting the conditions Some of the examples
are as follows:
/lozenge4 We can prevent duplicate entries  in a range on the worksheet
(Figure 2.50) i.e. suppose we check duplicate employee number
or duplicate product code in the asset ledger or duplicate account
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
55
code for the same item entered by user
it shows the err or.
/lozenge4 We can limit the sum value for a range
which will cause error if sum of the
values exceeds the given total ,  i.e.
suppose the total amount of budget is
fixed and sum of the distribution of
the amount for different items in the
range exceeds then it shows the error
(Figure 2.50(a)
/lozenge4 We can prevent user from adding
spaces before or after the text  in entry. The TRIM function
removes spaces before and after the text. This formula checks
that the entry is equal to trimmed entry (Figure 2.50(b).
Figure 2.50(a)
/lozenge4 We can pr event entry of dates that falls on (weekends or
holidays) Saturday or Sunday (or any other day). The WEEKDAY
function returns the number for the date entered in the cell. If
the value is 1(it is Sunday) and 7 (it is Saturday) then data entry
is not allowed (Figure 2.50(c) and error message will be displayed.
2.2.3 DAT
A VALIDATION FORM
To input data into a spreadsheet, often we type the data into cells
directly. That’s where data validation comes in handy. Instead of typing
the same thing again and again, we can enter data into cells using
Figure 2.50(c)Figure 2.50(b)
A for m, whether printed or online, is a document designed with a
standard structure and format that makes it easier to capture, organise,
and edit infor mation.  A data for m is a dialog box that displays one
complete record at a time. Data for ms can be used to add, change,
locate, and delete records.
Reprint 2024-25

56
Computerised Accounting System
drop-down lists or using data input form . Using a data form can make
data entry easier than moving from column to column when we have
more columns of data than can be viewed on the screen. To create
input data form it is necessary that all the data names must be entered
in the first row of the worksheet, because the input form refers these
data names. To create input data form we have to select the tool 
as Form button to the Quick Access Toolbar 
  .
The Form button has not been included on the user interface Ribbon,
but we can still use it in Excel 2007 by adding at Quick Access Toolbar
using following commands:
1. Click the arrow next to the Quick
Access Toolbar, and then click More
Commands .
2. In the Choose commands from  box,
click All Commands .
3.  In the list box, select the Form
button, and then click Add.
The data form is useful, when data are
of in a simple form of text boxes that
list the column headings as labels is
sufficient and don’t required
sophisticated or custom form features,
such as a list box or spin button.
Excel automatically generates a built-in data form (Figure 2.51).
The data form displays all column headers as labels in a single dialog
box. Each label has an adjacent blank text box in which we can enter
data for each column, up to a maximum of  32 columns. In a data form,
we can enter new rows, find rows by navigating or (based on cell
contents) update rows and delete rows. If a cell contains a formula,
the formula result is displayed in the data form, but we cannot change
the formula by using the data form.
2.3  DATA FORMATTING
Formatting of spreadsheets makes easier to read and understand he
important information (e.g. conditional formatting, number formatting,
text and general spreadsheet formatting etc.). On the Ribbon there are
several tools and shortcuts to format spreadsheets effectively. Some of
them are described as follows:
2.3.1 FORMATTING TOOLS
The formatting tools for:
• Number formatting – Number formatting includes adding per cent
symbols (%), commas (,), decimal places, and currency signs ($,
Figure 2.51
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
57
Rs. etc), date, time, scientific values and as well as some special
formats to a spreadsheet. The type of number format can be
determined once the data is entered into the cell. Here are some
examples:
/lozenge4 Currency:  If we enter a financial
value complete with the dollar/
currency sign and two decimal
places, Excel assigns a Currency
format to the cell alongwith the
entry.
/lozenge4 Percentages:  If we enter a value
representing a percentage as a whole
number followed by the per cent sign
without any decimal places, Excel
assigns to the cell the percentage
format that follows this pattern along with the entry.
/lozenge4 Dates: If we enter a date (dates are values, too) that follows one
of the built-in Excel number formats, such as 16-04-2009 or 16-
Apr-2009 the pr ogram assigns a Date for mat that follows the
pattern of the date.
Example – Explaining below the steps to format range B4:E7 as
currency with zero decimal places using negative preset format.
The sample unformatted worksheet is shown in the Figure 2.52(a)
Select the range to format, i.e.
B4:E7
From the Ribbon select, Home
Tab with Number option, click
on (Figure 2.52(b) to display
Format Cells dialog box and
choose Number tab.
The Category  list shows all
the preset formats available
in Excel, grouped into
categories. A sample
corresponding to the current
selection is shown at the top
of the box.
Select the Category required
i.e. Currency. The right hand
side of the box shows the
different symbols of
currencies. It also shows the
preset for negative values
either minus sign (-) or red
Figure 2.52(a)
Figure 2.52(b)
Reprint 2024-25

58
Computerised Accounting System
coloured number (if we do not want to display negative sign
data).
Change the number of decimal places to Zero (0).
Click OK accept this format.
The output of these steps is shown in the Figure 2.52(c).
Similarly if we select the Category for the range H4:H8 as
Percentage with Decimal Places to 2 digits. The Figure 2.52(d)
will show the effect of this change.
Figure 2.52(c) Figure 2.52(d)
• Special Format Category
Special category  data (special numbers)
such as phone numbers, zip codes, and
Social Security numbers which require
different format in a certain way (Figure
2.52(e). From the Category option we select
Special and from corresponding drop-down
box under the Locale we select format special
numbers appropriate to specific countries.
Figure 2.52(e)
• Changing cell colours  -
Select the range to format (e.g. B4:E7 –
Figure 2.52(c).
From the Ribbon select Home Tab with
Number option, click on (Figure 2.42(b)
to display Format Cells  dialog box and
choose Fill tab.
Fill  tab pr ovide Backgr ound Colour ,
Pattern Colour and Pattern Style options
for the cell (or cell range to fill).
Select the colour required with desired
pattern style and pattern colour from the
Colour pallets (Figure 2.52(f).
Click OK and we see the result as given
in Figure 2.52(g).
Figure 2.52(f)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
59
There is other number a format tool on
the Ribbon for which allows number s to
format aesthetically such as :
In the Number section, click the Comma
Style button. Then the thousand digit
numbers or one hundred digit numbers will
be display with a comma
sign which makes it
easier to read. Excel also
allows more precise with these numbers, that’s why
it added two decimal values.
To remove the decimal values, in the Number
section of the Ribbon, click the Decrease Decimal
button. That removes one decimal value. Click the
Decrease Decimal button again  to remove another
decimal value. Similarly we can use to Increase Decimal button twice.
To create own custom format, from the
Format Cell dialog box, click the Custom
category (Figure 2.52(h), select one of the
existing formats, and then proceed to create
by adding appropriate or subtracting
undesired characters.
We can find out the for mat used in a cell
or some cells of unknown worksheet and can
be changed by using the Format Cells dialog.
In this case Right-click the mouse button
for appropriate cell (s) or column (s) and
choose Format Cells. In the Category list,
select one of the formats as per
characteristics from the right list or select
the custom format.
Adding text formatting – The text formatting is mostly required
for presentation of final output and aesthetically reading of the
information.  There may be display of the text or numbers in different
Fonts;  Aligning in Cells ,
Changing Colour of Fonts ,
Merging of cell ranges to
accommodate data etc .
(Figure 2.52(i & j))  When we
insert a Text box, it looks
quite plain. W e can for mat
text boxes to make them
stand out on the worksheet;
using the options from the
Ribbon; on Insert Tab  with
Figure 2.52(g)
Figure 2.52 (i)
Figure 2.52 (j)
Figure 2.52(h)
Reprint 2024-25

60
Computerised Accounting System
the Text dialog box. We can use these drawing tools  in dressing them
up with special formatting commands (Figure 2.52(j)). These tools allow
us to add decorative and explanatory material to worksheet and chart.
How the Illustrations Tools or Text Tools  can be used; let us
understand from the example using both the tools bars together .
• Change the font or font size in a worksheet (Figure 2.52(j)) and
Figure 2.52(j)
1. Select the cell, range  of cells, text, or characters that we want to
format.
2. On the Home tab, in the 
Font group, we will do the following:
/lozenge4 To change the font, click the font
that we want in the Font box.
/lozenge4 To change the font size, click the
font size that we want in the Font
Size box , or click Increase Font
Size 
or Decrease Font Size
until the size we want is displayed in the Font Size box.
• Change the cell border (Figure 2.52(k))
1. On a worksheet, select the cell or range of cells that we want to add
a border to, change the border style on, or remove a border from.
2. On the Home tab, in the Font group, we will do one of the
following:
/lozenge4 To apply a new or different border style, click the arrow next
to Borders , and then click a border style.
/lozenge4 To remove cell borders, click the arrow next to Borders, and
then click No Border.
The Borders button displays the most r ecently used bor der style. W e
can click the Borders button (not the arrow) to apply that style.
• Create a custom cell border (Figure 2.52(j) Figure 2.52(i)
We can cr eate a cell style that includes a
custom bor
der, and can apply to that cell style
when we want to display the custom border
around selected cells.
1. On the Home tab, in the Styles  group,
click Cell Styles .
2. Click New Cell Style .
3. In the Style name box, type an appropriate name for the new
cell style.
4. Click Format.
Figure 2.52(k)
Figure 2.52(l)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
61
5. On the Border tab, under Line , in the Style box, click the line
style that we want to use for the bor der.
6. In the Colour box, select the colour that we want to use.
7. Under Border
, click the bor der buttons to cr eate the bor der
that we want to use.
8. Click OK.
9. In the Style dialog box, under Style Includes , clear the check
boxes for any formatting that we do not want to include in the
cell style.
10. Click OK.
11. To apply the cell style, do the following:
12. Select the cells that we want to format with the custom cell
border.
13. On the Home tab, in the Styles group, click Cell Styles.
14. Click the cell style that we want to apply.
• Conditional Formatting
Conditional for matting helps us for specific questions about data. W e
can apply conditional formatting to a cell range, a table, or a PivotTable
report. There are important differences to understand when we use
conditional formatting on a PivotTable report (Figure 2.52(k).
• The benefits of conditional formatting (Figure 2.52m)
To analyse data, we often ask ourselves some questions,
such as:
Where are the exceptions in a summary of data
over the past five years?
What is the trend in data over the past two years?
Who is responsible for such results during this
month?
What is the overall age distribution of employees?
Which products have greater than 10% revenue
increases from year to year?
Who are the highest performing and lowest
performing students in the class?
Conditional formatting helps to answer these questions by making it
easy to highlight interesting cells or ranges of cells, emphasise unusual
values, and visualise data by using data bars, colour scales, and icon
sets. A conditional format changes the appearance of a cell range based
on a condition (or criteria). If the condition is true, the cell range is
formatted based on that condition; if the conditional is false, the cell
range is not formatted based on that condition.
Figure 2.52(m)
Reprint 2024-25

62
Computerised Accounting System
• Format all cells by using a colour scale
Colour scales are visual guides that help us to understand data
distribution and their variation. A colour scale helps us to compare a
range of cells by using a gradation of different colours. The shade of
the colour represents higher or lower values. For example, in a green
colour are higher value cells and red colour for lower value cells.
If one or more cells in the range contain a formula that returns an
error, the conditional for matting is not applied to the entir e range. T o
ensure that the conditional formatting is applied to the entire range, use
an IS or IFERROR function to return a value other than an error value.
1. Select one or more cells in a range, table, or
PivotTable report.
2. On the Home tab, in the Styles group, click the
arrow next to Conditional Formatting , and then
click Colour Scales . (Figure 2.52(n).
3. Select a two-colour scale.
• More than the two colours (Figure 2.52(o)
1. Select  one or more cells in a range, table, or
PivotTable report.
2. On the Home tab, in the Styles group, click the
arrow next to Conditional Formatting , and then
click Manage Rules.  The Conditional Formatting
Rules Manager  dialog box is displayed. Do one of
the following:
/square4To add a conditional format, click New Rule . The New
Formatting Rule dialog box is displayed.
/square4To change a conditional format, do the following:
Figure 2.52(n)
Figure 2.52(o)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
63
1. Make sure that the appropriate worksheet, table, or PivotTable
report is selected in the Show formatting rules for  list box.
2. Optionally, change the range of cells by clicking Collapse Dialog
in the Applies to  box to temporarily hide the dialog box, by
selecting the new range of cells on the worksheet, and then by
selecting Expand Dialog .
3. Select the rule, and then click Edit rule . The 
Edit Formatting
Rule dialog box is displayed.
4. Under Select a Rule Type , click Format all cells based on
their values .
5. Under Edit the Rule Description , in the Format Style list box,
select 3-Colour Scale .
6. To select a Minimum and Maximum Type do one of the following:
/square4Format lowest and highest values  Select Lowest Value and
Highest Value. In this case, we do not enter a Minimum and
Maximum Value.
/square4Format a number , date, or time value  Select Number, and
then enter a Minimum and Maximum Value.
/square4Format a percentage  Select Per cent , and then enter a
Minimum and Maximum Value. Valid values are fr om 0 (zero)
to 100. Do not enter a per cent sign. Use a percentage when
we want to visualise all values proportionally because the
distribution of values is proportional.
/square4Format a percentile  Select Percentile  and then enter a
Minimum and Maximum Value. Valid per centiles are fr om 0
(zero) to 100.
Percentile is usually used we want to visualise a group of high
values (such as the 20th percentile) in one colour grade proportion
because they represent extreme values that might skew the visualisation
of the data.
/square4Format a formula result  Select Formula, and then enter a
Minimum and Maximum Value.
The for mula must r eturn a number , date, or time value. Start the
formula with an equal sign (=). It’s a good idea to test the formula in the
worksheet to make sure that the formula doesn’t return an error value.
• Changing the alignment of data in cells  (Figure 4.52(p)
There are several options to change the alignment of text (data) in cells
Text layoutText layoutText layoutText layoutText layout
Vertical alignment  – T o specify the vertical position of the text in a
shape, select an option from the list (or from the tool box).
Text direction – To specify the orientation of the text in a shape, select
an option from the list.
Reprint 2024-25

64
Computerised Accounting System
2. Autofit2. Autofit2. Autofit2. Autofit2. Autofit
Resize shape to fit text  - To increase the size of the shape vertically
so that the text fits inside of it, click this button.
3. Inter 3. Inter3. Inter3. Inter3. Inter nal mar
nal marnal mar nal marnal mar gin gingin gingin
The internal margin is the distance between the text and the outer
border of a chart element. W e can increase or decrease the amount of
this space by using the following options.
Left –  To specify the distance between the left border of the selected
chart element and the text, enter the margin number that we want in
the Left box.
Right –  To specify the distance between the right border of the selected
chart element and the text, enter the margin number that we want in
the Right box.
Top – To specify the distance between the top border of the selected
chart element and the text, enter the margin number that we want in
the Top box.
Bottom – To specify the distance between the bottom border of the
selected chart element and the text, enter the margin number that we
want in the Bottom box.
Columns – To specify the number of columns of text in a chart element
and the spacing between the columns, click this button.
The commands for this
/handptright Select the range.
/handptright Click on Home tab  for Alignment  options
which displays the dialog box and select
the alignment tab (Figure 2.38(n)(1).
/handptright Select horizontal and vertical as alignment
required.
/handptright There are other options to display text at
angular orientation or text to be control
within cell or to spread within the cell.
/handptright Click OK.
• Merging a range of Cells
Merged cells are a single cell that is created by combining two or more
selected cells. The cell r eference for a merged cell is the upper -left cell
in the original selected range.  When two or more adjacent horizontal
or vertical cells are merged, the cells become one large cell and
displayed across multiple columns or rows. The contents of one appear
in the centre of the merged cell. 
Figure 2.52(p)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
65
1. Select two or more adjacent cells that we want to merge.
2. On the Home tab, in the Alignment  group, click Merge and
Centre. (Or button).
3. The cells will be merged in a row or column, and the cell contents
will be centered in the merged cell. To merge cells without
centering, click the arrow next to Merge and Centre , and then
click Merge Across  or Merge Cells . The cell address of merge
cells will be the address of lower active cell.
4. To change the text alignment in the merged cell,
select the cell; click any of the alignment buttons
in the Alignment group on the 
Home tab.
• Split a merged cell (Figure 2.52(q)
1. Select the merged cell.
2. When we select a merged cell, the Merge and Centre  button
also appears selected in the Alignment  group on the Home tab.
3. To split the merged cell, click Merge and Centre . The contents
of the mer ged cell will appear in the upper -left cell of the range
of split cells.
• Formatting a Table
There are predefined table styles (or quick styles) that we can use to
quickly format a table. If the pre-defined table styles don’t meet our
needs, we can create and apply a custom table style.
The table formatting by choosing Quick Styles options for table
elements, such as header and total rows, first and last columns, and
banded rows and columns.
• To choose a table style to create a table (Figure 2.52(r))
1. On the worksheet, select a range of cells that we want to quickly
format as a table.
Figure 2.52(r)
Figure 2.52(q)
Reprint 2024-25

66
Computerised Accounting System
2. On the Home tab, in the Styles  group, click Format as Table .
3. Under Light, Medium, or Dark, click the table style that we
want to use.
Apply a table style to an existing table
1. On the worksheet, select the table to which we want to apply a
table style.
2. On the Design tab, in the Table Styles
 group, do one of the
following:
/square4Click the More button, from the dropdown menu, click the
table style (Light, Medium or Dark) that we want to use.
• Using the NOW function to add the current date to the
spreadsheet
NOW ( ) is the function returns the serial number of the current date
and time. If the cell format was General before the function was entered,
the result is formatted as a date.
Excel stores dates as sequential serial numbers so they can be used
in calculations. By default, January 1, 1900 is serial number 1, and
January 1, 2008 is serial number 39448 because it is 39,448 days after
January 1, 1900.  Numbers to the right of the decimal point in the serial
number represent the time; numbers to the left represent the date. For
example, the serial number 0.5 represents the time 12:00 noon.
•  Adding Headers and Footers to Excel Spreadsheet
In spreadsheet, headers and footers are lines of text
that are printed at the top (header) and bottom (footer)
of each page in the spreadsheet. They contain
descriptive text such as titles, dates, and/or page
numbers and are used to add information to a printed
spreadsheet.
The headers and footers options are available in
Page Layout view (Figure 2.53(a). For other sheet
types, such as chart sheets or for embedded charts
we can work with headers and footers in the Page
Setup dialog box.
Add or change the header or footer text for a
worksheet in Page Layout view
1. Click the worksheet to which we want to add/change headers or
footers.
2. On the Insert tab, in the T ext group, click Header and Footer .
(refer Figure 2.53(b)) Or  Do one of the following:
/square4To add a header or footer, click the left, centre, or right header or
footer text box at the top or at the bottom of the worksheet page.
Figure 2.53(a)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
67
/square4To change a header or footer , click
the header or footer text box at the
top or at the bottom of the worksheet
page that contains header or footer
text, and then select the text that we
want to change.
3. Type the text that we want.
• Use Format Painter
To copy quickly formatting from one cell or group of cells to another
part of the spr eadsheet uses the for mat painter . This featur e is
very useful when extending a spreadsheet and we need to format
the newly added cells to match the original ones.
• Use of AutoFormat Option
To quickly apply a number of formatting features to a spreadsheet
we can use one of the 17 AutoFormat styles available (in Excel
2007). These styles combine a number of formatting options that
will instantly give our spreadsheet a professional look.
2.4  OUTPUT REPORTS
We can print entire or partial worksheets and workbooks,
one at a time, or several at once. The MS Excel can
print just the Excel table or also it provides to:
(a) Print a partial o r entire worksheet or
workbook.
(b) Print several worksheets at once.
(c) Print several workbooks at once.
(d) Print an Excel table.
(e) Print a workbook to a file.
(f) Print a graphic Charts and Pivot Tables.
We can also print a workbook to a file instead of to
a printer . This is useful when we need to print the
workbook on a different type of printer from the one to
another printer. The printing option is available to print
quickly or to preview the printout before printing, click
Microsoft Office Button, click the arrow next to Print, and then click
Quick Print  or Print Preview  (Figure 2.54).  To print worksheet or
table; basic preparation fo r printing is required and describe below:
2.4.1  DEFINING THE PRINT
 AREA
By default, Excel prints all data on the current worksheet but for
specific and formatted print we have to define print area from the Page
Setup dialog box or the Print Area command from the Page Layout
option of the Ribbon (Figure 2.55).
Figure 2.54
Figure 2.53(b)
Reprint 2024-25

68
Computerised Accounting System
•   The Print Area using Dialog Box Option
1. Select the Page Layout command tab
on the Ribbon.
2. In the Page SetupPage SetupPage SetupPage SetupPage Setup  group, click Page
Setup.  The Page SetupPage SetupPage SetupPage SetupPage Setup  dialog box
appears.
3. Select the Sheet tab.
4. In the Print Area  text box, type the
range of cells you want to print or to
select the area –
a. Click Collapse Dialog
b. Select the desired range of cells
c. Click Restore Dialog
5. Click OK and the print area is defined.
•   The Print Area using Print Area Option
Excel keeps the print area defined until it
is cleared or replaced. To set the print area:
1. Select the range of cells to print (e.g. A1:H10 of Figure 2.55)
2. Select the Page Layout
 command tab
3. In the Page Setup Page Setup Page Setup Page Setup Page Setup group, click Print Area » select Set Print
Area. The print area is set.
4. OPTIONAL: To add more data to the print area
a. select a range of cells
b. In the Page Setup group, click Print Area» select Add to Print
Area; the selected cells are added to any previously selected
data.
c. Repeat steps a and b as necessary.
• To clear the print area
1. In the Page Setup Page Setup Page Setup Page Setup Page Setup group, click Print Area » select Clear Print
Area
Printing Ranges of CellsPrinting Ranges of CellsPrinting Ranges of CellsPrinting Ranges of CellsPrinting Ranges of Cells
We can manually select ranges of cells for printing and also have the
option of selecting multiple non-contiguous ranges for printing.
• To select Print Range manually (using key board only)
1. Select the range of cells to be printed
or
From the Name Box pull-down list, select the range name to be
printed.
Figure 2.55
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
69
2. In the top left corner of the Excel window, click the Office Button»
select Print PrintPrintPrintPrint  or Press [Ctrl] + [
P] the Print  dialog box appears.
3. In the Print what section, select Selection.Selection.Selection.Selection.Selection.
4. Click OK. The specified range of cells is printed.
• To select Print Multiple Ranges
Excel facilitates to print non-contiguous ranges. Selected ranges
will print on separate pages.
1. Select the first range to be printed.
2. Press [Ctrl] + select the second range to be printed .
3. For each additional range to be printed, repeat step 2.
4. In the top left corner of the Excel window, click the Office Button
– select Print PrintPrint PrintPrint  OR Press [Ctrl] + [ P]. The Print dialog box appears.
5. In the Print what section, select Selection.Selection.Selection.Selection.Selection.
6. Click Print. The specified range of cells is printed.
2.5  PREPARATION OF REPORTS USING PIVOT TABLE
A Pivot Table is way to present information in a report format. A
PivotTable report often provides enhanced layout, attractive and
formatted report with improved readability. This report is prepared
from the spreadsheet once we add the fields with appropriate level of
details, calculations and group the data as per required information.
The Pivot Table uses a List Data Table (Database).
2.5.1  ONE-VARIABLE DATA TABLE
• C1 cell is an input cell. W e will cr eate one-variable data table
which calculates the increase in the budget corresponding to
each of the possible increase in costs.
• If the data table is column-oriented, type the formula (=A2*C1) in
the row (row number 4) above the first value (in cell B5) and one
cell to the right (in cell C4) of the column of values (Figure 2.56).
A data tabledata tabledata tabledata tabledata table  is a range of cells that shows the results of substituting different values
in one or more for mulas. There are two types of data table: One-variable and two-
variable.
One-variable data tableOne-variable data tableOne-variable data tableOne-variable data tableOne-variable data table  (Figure 2.56(a) For mula used in a one-variable data table
must refer to an input cell. The input cell is a cell used by Excel in which each input
value from a data table is substituted (column-oriented, i.e. input cell down one
column or row-oriented, i.e. across one-row).
TTT
TTwo-variable data tablewo-variable data tablewo-variable data tablewo-variable data tablewo-variable data table  (Figure 2.56(b) use only one for mula with two lists of input
values. The for mula must refer two different input cells.
Reprint 2024-25

70
Computerised Accounting System
• Enter a column of values from B5:B10.
• Select all cells in the range B4:C10(Fig 2.56(a).
• On the Data tab on the Ribbon, in the Data
Tools group, click What-if-Analysis , and
then click Data Table  (Figure 2.56(b) .
• In the Row input cell box 
no  entry.
• In the Column input cell box, enter  $C$1
• Click OK to generate table.
2.5.2 TWO-VARIABLE DATA TABLE (Figure 2.57)
This we will learn by one simplest example
generating a mathematical table in which two
input cells uses B1 and C1 to generate a 15 ×15
multiplication table by multiplying each other .
• In a cell B2 on the worksheet, enter the formula
(= B1 *C1) that refers to the two input cells.
Figure 2.56
 Figure 2.56(b)
Figure 2.56(a)
Figure 2.57 Figure 2.57 (a)
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
71
• Type one list of input values in the
same column below the (or fill the
series from  1 to 15 in B3:B17).
• Type the second list in the same row
( or fill the series from 1 to 15 in
C3:Q3), to the right of the formula.
• Select the range of cells that
contains the formula and both the
row and column of values i.e.
B2:Q17.
• On the Data tab on the Ribbon, in
the Data Tools  group, click What-
if-Analysis, and then click Data Table.
• In the Row input cell box enter $B$1.
• In the Column input cell box , enter
$C$1.
• Click OK to generate table (Figure 2.57(a))
2.5.3  PIVOT
 TABLES
The Pivot Table feature allows us to create a
cross tabulation summary of data in which
heading can subsequently moved to give
different views of the data. W e will understand
with the help of following example.
Example:  A spreadsheet (Figure 2.58)
provides the data for consumption from D2:D37
(in Metric Tons) of three different vegetables
namely Carrot, Onions and Potatoes during the
three days of the week in four different metro
cities. The quota of consumption is fixed by
Food Department to supply of these vegetables
in the city. The spread sheet shows the Actual
Consumption and Surplus (i.e. = actual –
quota).
• Click the data from A1: E37
• On the Insert tab on the Ribbon, in the
Tables  group, click Pivot Table , and
then click Pivot Table to start Pivot Table
Report interactive options (Figure 2.58(a)
as Create Pivot Report (Figure 2.58(b).
• Enter the data location
• Choose to place the Pivot table on an Existing worksheet (say
G19).
Figure 2.58(a)
Figure 2.58
Figure 2.58(b)
Reprint 2024-25

72
Computerised Accounting System
• Click OK to display a blank Pivot table and filed list  (Figure
2.58(c) and Excel displays the Pivot Table Toolbar
1. Drag the Field Names (From
location number 1) to the
require positions in the pivot
table (location Number 6).
2. Report Filter “Day”
3. Column Label “V egetable”
4. Row Label “City”
5. Values “Sum of Actual” and
the final result will be
displayed (Figure 2.58(d).
6. In the above selections at Row
Label we give “City” and then
“Vegetable”; while in column
Label if we do not enter any
selection. The Pivot Report will
be as shown in Figure 2.58(e).
The Pivot Table tool bar (Figure 2.58(f) provides various flexibility to
work on data.
Figure 2.58(c)
Figure 2.58(d) Figure 2.58(e)
Figure 2.58(f) : Pivot Table Toolbar
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
73
Advantages of Pivot Table (Report)
A PivotTable report is an interactive way to quickly summarise large
amounts of data. Use a PivotTable report to analyse numerical data in
depth and to answer unanticipated questions about data. A PivotTable
report designed for:
/handptrtsldQuerying large amounts of data in user -friendly ways. Sub totaling
and aggregating numeric data, summarising data by categories and
subcategories, and creating custom calculations and formulas.
/handptrtsldExpanding and collapsing levels of data to focus on results, and
providing from details to the summary of data for areas of interest.
/handptrtsldMoving rows to column or columns to rows (or “pivoting”) to see
different summaries of the source data.
/handptrtsldFiltering, sorting, grouping, and conditionally formatting the most
useful and the interesting subset of data to enable us to focus on
the information that we want.
/handptrtsldPresenting concise, attractive, and annotated online or printed
reports.
/handptrtsldThe use of a PivotTable report is to analyse related totals, when we
have a long list of figures to sum and to compare several facts
about each figure.
2.6. COMMON ERRORS (MESSAGES) IN SPREADSHEET
4.1.1  MARK COMMON FORMULA ERRORS
1. Click the Microsoft Office Button , click Excel Options, and then
click the Formulas category.
2. In the Error Checking section, select the Enable background error
checking check box.
3. To change the colour of the triangle that marks where an error
occurs, in the 
Indicate errors using the colour  box, select a new
colour.
4. Select a cell with a triangle in the top-left corner of a cell.
5. Next to the cell, click the Error Checking button that appears, and
then click the option that we want. The commands are different for
each type of error, and the first entry describes the err or. If we click
Ignore Error, the error is marked to be ignored for each consecutive
check.
6. Repeat the two previous steps.
• Correct an error value
If a formula cannot properly evaluate a result, e Excel will display an error
value. Each error type has different causes, and different solutions. Some
are discussed here to understand them properly before redo the operation
Figure 2.59
Reprint 2024-25

74
Computerised Accounting System
• Correct a ##### error
This error occur when a column is not wide enough, or a negative date
or time is used.
Reason: The column is not wide enough to display the content
1. Select the column by clicking the column header .
2. On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click Format, and then
click AutoFit Column Width . Alternatively also we can double-
click the boundary to the right of the column heading.
3. Select the column.
4. On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click Format, click Format
Cells, and then click the 
Alignment tab.
5. Select the Shrink to fit check box.
Apply a different number format
In some cases, we can change the cell’s number format to
make the number fit within the existing cell width. For
example, we can decrease the number of decimal places
after the decimal point.
•  Correct a #DIV/0! Error
This error occurs when a number is divided by zero (0).
1. Optionally, click the cell that displays the err or, click the button
that appears, and then click Show Calculation Steps if it is appears.
Reasons
a. Entering a f ormula that contains explicit division by zero (0) —
for example, =5/0.
Dates and times are negative numbersDates and times are negative numbersDates and times are negative numbersDates and times are negative numbersDates and times are negative numbers
When a date or time is typed in a cell, it appears in a default date and time for mat.
The default date and time format is based on the Regional date and time settings that
are specified in Windows Control Panel, and changes when changes are made to
those settings. We can display numbers in several other dates and time formats, most
of which are not affected by Control Panel settings.
/square4 If we are using the 1900 date system, dates and times in Excel must be positive
values.
/square4 When we subtract dates and times, make sure that we build the formula correctly.
/square4 If the formula is correct but the result is still a negative value, we can display the
value by formatting the cell with a for mat that is not a date or time for mat.
1. On the Home HomeHome HomeHome  tab, in the Cells CellsCells CellsCells  group, click For ForFor ForFor mat matmat matmat , click For ForFor ForFor mat Cellsmat Cellsmat Cellsmat Cellsmat Cells , and
then click the Number NumberNumber NumberNumber  tab.
2. Select a for mat that is not a date or time for mat.
Figure 2.60
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
75
b. Using the cell reference to a blank cell or to a cell that contains
zero as a divisor .
Solutions
/square4Change the cell reference to another cell.
/square4Enter a value other than zero in the cell used as a divisor .
/square4Enter the value #N/A into the cell r eferenced as the divisor ,
which changes the result of the formula to #N/A from #DIV/0!
To denote that the divisor value is not available.
/square4Prevent the error value from displaying by using the IF worksheet
function. For example, if the formula that creates the error is
=A5/B5, use =IF (B5=0,””, A5/B5) instead. The two quotation
marks represent an empty text string.
•   Correct a #N/A error
This error occurs when a value is not available to a function or formula.
1. Optionally, click t he cell that displays the err or, click the button
that appears, and then click Show Calculation Steps  if it appears.
Reasons and Solutions
a. Missing data, and #N/A or NA() has been entered in its place.
b. Giving an inappropriate value for lookup function as an argument
such functions may be HLOOKUP, VLOOKUP, MA
TCH or LOOKUP.
c. Using these lookup functions to locate the value in an unsorted
table.
d. Using an argument in the array formula that is not in the same
number of rows or columns as the range that contains the array
formula.
•   Correct a #NAME? Error
This error occurs when Excel doesn’t recognize text in a formula.
Reasons :
a. The EUROCON VERT function without the Eur o Curr ency T ools
add-in being loaded.
Solutions
1. Click the Microsoft Office Button , click Excel Options, and
then click the Add-ins category.
2. Select Excel Add-ins in the 
Manage list box, and then click Go .
3. In the Add-Ins available  list, select the Euro Currency Tools
check box, and then click OK.
•   Correct #NULL! Error
This error occurs when we specify an intersection of two areas that do
not intersect. The intersection operator is a space between references.
Reprint 2024-25

76
Computerised Accounting System
1. Optionally, click the cell that displays the err or, click the button
that appears, and then click Show Calculation Steps if it appears.
2. Possible causes and solutions.
Incorrect range operator
/square4To refer to a contiguous range of cells, use a colon (:) to separate
the reference to the first cell in the range from the reference to
the last cell in the range. For example, SUM (A1:A10) refers to
the range from cell A1 to cell A10 inclusive.
/square4To refer to two ar eas that don’t intersect, use the union operator ,
the comma (,). For example, if the formula sums two ranges
make sure that a comma separates the two ranges (SUM (A1:A10,
C1:C10)).
Ranges do not intersect
/square4If there are no squares at each corner of the colour-coded border,
then the reference is to a named range.
/square4If ther e ar e squar es at each cor ner of the colour -coded bor der,
then the reference is not to a named range.
5. Double-click the cell that contains the formula we want to change.
Excel highlights each cell or range of cells with a different colour.
6. Do one of the following:
/square4To move a cell or range reference to a different cell or range,
drag the colour-coded
 border of the cell or range to the new cell
or range.
/square4To include more or fewer cells  in a reference, drag a corner of
the bor der.
/square4In the formula, select the reference, and type  a new one.
7. Press ENTER.
8. Do one of the following:
/square4Select the range of cells that contains formulas  in which we
want to replace references with names.
/square4Select a single cell to change the references to names in all
formulas on the worksheet.
9. On the Formulas tab, in the Defined Names  group, click the
arrow next to Define Name, and then click Apply Names.
10.In the Apply Names box, click one or more names.
•   Correct#NUM! Error
This error occurs with invalid numeric values in a formula or function.
1. Optionally, click the cell that displays the error , click the button
that appears, and then click Show Calculation Steps if it appears.
2. Review the following possible causes and solutions:
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
77
/square4Using an unacceptable argument in a function that requires a
numeric argument.
/square4Make sure that the arguments (argument: The values that a
function uses to perform operations or calculations. The type of
argument a function uses is specific to the function. Common
arguments that are used within functions include numbers, text,
cell references, and names.) used in the function are numbers.
For example, even if the value we want to enter is $1,000, enter
1000 in the formula.
/square4Using a worksheet function that iterates, such as IRR or RATE,
and the function cannot find a result.
/square4Use a different starting value for the worksheet function.
/square4Change the number of times Microsoft Office Excel iterates
formulas.
1. Click the Microsoft Office Button
, click Excel Options, and
then click the Formulas category.
2. In the Calculation options section, select the Enable iterative
calculations check box.
3. To set the maximum number of times that Excel will recalculate,
type the number of iterations in the Maximum Iterations  box.
The higher the number of iterations, the more time that Excel
needs to calculate a worksheet.
4. To set the maximum amount of change that we will accept between
calculation results, type the amount in the Maximum Change
box. The smaller the number , the mor e accurate the r esult and
the more time that Excel needs to calculate a worksheet. Entering
a formula that produces a number that is too large or too small
to be represented in Excel.
•   Correct a #REF! Error
This error occurs when a cell reference (cell reference: The set of
coordinates that a cell occupies on a worksheet. For example, the
reference of the cell that appears at the intersection of column B and
row 3 is B3.) is not valid.
1. Optionally, click the cell that displays the err or, click the button
that appears, and then click Show Calculation Steps if it appears.
2. Review the following possible causes and solutions:
/square4Deleting cells referred to by other formulas, or pasting moved
cells over cells referred to by other formulas.
/square4Change the formulas, or restore the cells on the worksheet by
clicking Undo immediately after we delete or paste the cells.
/square4Using an Object Linking and Embedding (OLE) link to a program
that is not running.
/square4Start the program.
Reprint 2024-25

78
Computerised Accounting System
/square4Linking to a Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) topic such as “system”
that is not available.
/square4Make sure that we’re using the correct DDE topic.
/square4Running a macro that enter s a function that returns #REF!
•  Correct a #VALUE! Error
This error occurs when the wro ng type of argument (argument: The
values that a function uses to perform operations or calculations. The
type of argument a function uses is specific to the function. Common
arguments that are used within functions include numbers, text, cell
references, and names.) or operand (operand: Items on either side of
an operator in a formula. In Excel, operands can be values, cell
references, names, labels, and fun ctions.) is used.
1. Optionally, click the cell that displays the err or, click the button
that appears, and then click Show Calculation Steps if it appears.
2. Review the following possible causes and solutions.
/square4Entering text when the formula requires a number or a logical
value, such as TRUE or FALSE.
/square4Microsoft Office Excel cannot translate the text into the correct
data type. Make sure that the formula or function is correct for
the required operand or argument, and that the cells that are
referenced by the formula contain valid values. For example, if
cell A5 contains a number and cell A6 contains the text “Not
available”, the for mula =A5+A6 will r eturn the err or #VALUE!.
/square4Entering or editing an array formula, and then pressing ENTER.
/square4Select the cell or range of cells that contains the array
formula (array formula: A formula that performs multiple
calculations on one or more sets of values, and then returns
either a single result or multiple results. Array formulas are
enclosed between braces { } and are entered by pressing
CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.), press F2 to edit the formula, and then
press CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.
/square4Entering a cell reference, a formula, or a function as an array
constant.
/square4Make sure that the array constant (constant: A value that is not
calculated and, therefore, does not change. For example, the
number 210, and the text “Quarterly Earnings” are constants.
An expression, or a value resulting from an expression, is not a
constant.) is not a cell reference, formula, or function.
/square4Supplying a range to an operator or a function that requires a
single value, not a range.
/square4Change the range to a single value.
/square4Change the range to include either the same row or the same
column that contains the fo rmula.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
79
SummarySummarySummarySummarySummary
• Setting up a spreadsheet can be fairly time consuming, although templates,
or sample spreadsheets, are available with most of software packages. The
computeried spreadsheet can be formatted with different print layouts. It
allows working with rows and columns of numbers and use formula to do
“what if” calculations. The spreadsheet gives considerable power and
flexibility in entering and editing information, setting up calculations with
formula and functions, and printing the results. It has rows that are
horizontal lines of information that are numbered on the left-hand side of
the Excel workbook. Columns  are vertical lines of information and are
identified by letters along the top of the spreadsheet. Rows and columns
intersect to form cells.  A cell is addressed by the column and row position,
for example B4 is the intersection of column b and row 4.
• In the earliest spreadsheets, cells were a simple two-dimensional grid.
Over time, the model has been expanded to include a third dimension, and
in some cases a series of named grids, called sheets.
• In any worksheet or spreadsheet a cell is the smallest element which may
contain a value or a formula or a function or it may simply be left empty. To
use formula or function in the cell; usually begin with = sign by convention.
• A cell reference  is the name cell in the spreadsheet. Most cell references
indicate another cell in the same spreadsheet, but a cell reference can also
refer to a cell in a different sheet within the same spreadsheet or to a value
from a remote application. A typical cell reference  consists the column
followed by a row number is called relative cell reference . Both column
and row number; either part can be relative changes when the cell or
formula in it is moved or copied from other cell or absolute (indicated with
$ in front of the part concerned of the cell reference). The older “R1C1”
reference style consists of the letter R, the r ow number, the letter C, and
the column number; relative row or column numbers are indicated by
enclosing the number in square brackets. Most current spreadsheets use
the A1 style, some providing the R1C1 style as a compatibility option. When
the computer calculates a formula in one cell to update the displayed value
of that cell, cell reference(s) in that cell, naming some other cell(s), cause
the computer to fetch the value of the named cell(s).
• A reference to a range of cells is typically of the form (A1:A6) which specifies
all the cells in the range A1 through to A6. A formula such as “=S UM
(A1:A6)” would add all the cells specified and put the result in the cell
containing the formula itself.
• A function is a special key word which can be entered into a cell in order to
perform and process the data which is appended within brackets. There is
a function button on the formula toolbar (fff
ffx); which function offers assistance
Reprint 2024-25

80
Computerised Accounting System
and useful prompts into a spreadsheet cell. Alternatively we can enter the
function directly into the for mula bar. A function involves four main issues:
• Name of the function.
• The purpose of the function.
• The function needs what argument(s) in order to carry its assignment.
• The result of the function.
• Formatting  of spreadsheets makes easier to read and understand the
important information (e.g. conditional formatting, number formatting, text
and general spreadsheet formatting etc.). A cell or range can optionally be
defined to specify how the value is displayed. The default display format is
usually set by its initial content if not specifically previously set, so that for
example “24/11/1952” or “24 Nov 1952” would default to the cell format of
“date”. Similarly adding a % sign after a numeric value would tag the cell
as a percentage cell format. The cell contents are not changed by this
format, only the displayed value.
• To print an entire spreadsheet choose Page Setup  from the File Menu ,
Choose the appropriate options in terms of horizontal (landscape) or vertical
(portrait) printing, Excel prints entire spreadsheet document, if the document
is too wide to fit on a page, Excel will print the remaining columns on
subsequent pages before continuing to print the remaining rows.
• We can save our document every 5 minutes . The first time we  save, go to
the File Menu and pull to Save, make sure the document is in the correct
folder and on the correct drive , type the name for what we want to save it
as, and click in the save box.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
81
EXERCISE
Q1. MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS
1. The best way to get started in Excel 2007 is to click the _____. 
a. View toolbar.
b. Home tab.
c. Microsoft Office Button.
d. None of the above.
2. Which key combination collapses the ribbon?
a. [Ctrl]+[F1]
b. [Ctrl]+[F3]
c. [Ctrl]+[F5]
d. [Ctrl]+[F7]
3. Which view shows margins and the rulers?
a. Normal
b. Page Layout
c. Page Setup
d. Review
4. As you type a number in a cell, what mode appears in the status bar?
a. Enter mode
b. Ready mode
c. Edit mode
d. Record mode
5. Where is the address of the active cell displayed?
a. Row heading
b. Status bar
c. Name Box
d. Formula bar
6. Which command reverses the last action performed in the worksheet?
a. Cut
b. Undo
Reprint 2024-25

82
Computerised Accounting System
c. Redo
d. Paste
7. When navigating in a workbook, which command is used to move to the
beginning of the current row?
a. [Ctrl]+[Home]
b. [Page Up]
c. [Home]
d. [Ctrl]+[Backspace]
8. Which key when pressed displays the access keys?
a. [Alt]
b. [Ctrl]
c. [Shift]
d. [Esc]
9. Which command allows you to reverse an Undo command?
a. Redo
b. Repeat
c. Reset
d. Reverse
10. Which function results can be displayed in AutoCalculate?
a. SUM and AVERAGE
b. MAX and LOOK
c. LABEL and AVERAGE
d. MIN and BLANK
11. Which cell alignment is assigned to most values by default?
a. Right
b. Left
c. Centre
d. Decimal
12. Which function automatically totals a column or row of values?
a. TOTAL
b. ADD
c. SUM
d. AVG
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
83
13. Which mathematical operator is represented by an asterisk (*)?
a. Exponentiation
b. Addition
c. Subtraction
d. Multiplication
14. Which step completes an entry and moves the pointer to the cell to the right?
a. Pressing [Enter]
b. Pressing [Tab]
c. Pressing [Shift]+[Tab]
d. Pressing [Shift]+[Enter]
15. How many blank worksheets are shown when a new workbook is created?
a. One
b. Two
c. Three
d. Four
Q2. ANSWER THE FOLLOWINGS QUESTIONS
1. Define spreadsheet and its salient features?
2. Write any five advantages using electr onic spreadsheet in place of manual
spreadsheet.
3. Define workbook and worksheet. What is the difference between them?
4. Explain active worksheet?
5. Using Fill: Series command in Excel write down the steps to fill data from
120,320…..2300 in Column A.
6. Define Data Range, Name Range and How these are created and selected?
7. Write down the steps for the use of Custom Lists.
8. Explain the purpose of Format, Conditional Formatting and Auto Format.
9. What is Wrap Text feature of Excel, Merging of Cells and what will be the cell
address of merged cells?
10. Explain the purpose of using Print Preview?
11. Explain difference between relative reference and absolute reference?
12. Discuss IF function and nested IF functions giving example?
13. Write down examples for any two financial functions you know with their proper
syntax.
Reprint 2024-25

84
Computerised Accounting System
14. What is the use of PMT function?
15. How many ways Data Entry is possible in Spread Sheet?
16. Define one-variable Table and Two-variable table. Explain these with examples.
17. Define Pivot Table and explain usage?
18. What are formulas and how they are created?
19. Write down the differences between formula and function?
Q3. SKILL REVIEW
A. You had started your own online business to sale and find out the sales for the
first week is as follows:
Monday Rs.120.45
Tuesday Rs.187.43
Wednesday Rs.106.87
Thursday Rs.143.69
Friday Rs.117.52
Saturday Rs.87.93
Sunday Rs.92.12
Use a function to work out how much you earned, on average, each day.
B. Use a Days360 function to work out how many days are left before your next
birthday. Instead of typing out the current date in say cell A2, you can use this
inbuilt function:
=Now (   )
The Now function doesn’t need anything between the round brackets. Once
you have today’s date, you can enter your birthday in say cell B2.
C. Create an Activity Report (W eekly) for a Sales Repr esentative working in a
reputed home appliances manufacturing company. Details recorded should
contain Date of Visit, Day of Visit, Name of Shop/Dealer Visited, Address, Phone
Number, Name of Product (Dealing), Type of Response (by the Dealer), Demand
of Product and Duration Spent (in hrs)..
a. Fill data in Date of Visit, Day of Visit using Fill Series.
b. Name the worksheet created above as Weekly Visit Report.
c. Cerate Product-wise, Dealer-wise Monthly Report which should include Total
Hours Spent.
d. Count total number of dealers visited and dealers who gave positive
response.
Reprint 2024-25

Spreadsheet
85
Create a worksheet to record sales of home appliances sold by M/s Home Maker
Ltd. In the following format:
Date of Name of Name of  Make Quantity Sales
Sales Customers Products      Amount
The product lists includes Television sets, Refrigerators, Micro wave ovens,
Water Coolers, Air Coolers, Geezers and Air conditioners of dif ferent Makes
(and models). The cost of price of television is ranging from Rs. 10,000 to
Rs. 56,000; refrigerator is Rs. 13,000 to Rs. 45,000, micro wave ovens, water
coolers, geezers and air coolers are from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 25,000 and Air
Conditioners are from Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 55,000. The shopkeeper sales these
products adding 17.25% more on cost price. He provides a discount of 4.35%
on total amount if any customer purchases two products on the same date.
Enter 30 records of different dates (for a month) and different customers
accordingly. Calculate the following:
a. Product wise weekly sales and discount.
b. Calculate the profit of shopkeeper.
c. Product wise total sales of the month and discount offered.
D. Create a worksheet to keep track of revenue collected and expenses done in
conducting tour programs at different tourist places during 2004 to 2008.
Format the numeric data in currency format, prepare year wise columns for
revenue and expenses for each tourist place and calculate the difference. The
calculated difference may be negative, the format of negative balance may be
red coloured. Use conditional formatting for higher and lower values of revenue
and expenses. Align entire text in centre. The font of tourist place is Arial with
14 point while the font of year is Times Roman with 14 points.
(Amount in lacs)
Tourist 2004 2005
2006 2007 2008 Place
Rev Exp Rev Exp Rev Exp Rev Exp Rev Exp
 Manali 123 55 234 123 345 333 333 365 365 453
 Kashmir 234 123 123 55 365 453 345 333 333 365
 Shilong 345 333 333 365 123 55 234 123 456 233
 Kerala 333 365 365 453 234 123 123 55 345 333
Reprint 2024-25

86
Computerised Accounting System
   ANSWERS
1. c 2. a 3. b 4. a 5. c 6. b
7. c 8. a 9. a 10. a 11. b 12. c
13. d 14. b 15. c
Reprint 2024-25

